Title: SEGRA: Structured Experience-Guided Graph Reasoning Agent for Gremlin Based Question Answering

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.22713v1

Published Time: Tue, 28 Jul 2026 00:11:54 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# SEGRA: Structured Experience Guided Graph Reasoning Agent for Gremlin Based Question Answering 

Saiyue Lyu 1†, Mariam Dundua 2, Vishaal Kapoor 2, Sarthak Ahuja 2,Neda Kordjazi 2, Evren Yortucboylu 2, Harsh Amin 2, Rebecca Steinert 2,

> 1

University of British Columbia, 2Amazon, 

saiyue.lyu@ubc.ca , {madundua,vishaalk}@amazon.com {sarahuja,nedakord,yortuc,haminate,rsteinrt}@amazon.com 

Abstract 

Enterprise IT support knowledge graphs cap-ture rich relationships among cases, users, de-vices, symptoms, taxonomic categories, root causes, and historical resolutions. Yet querying them in Gremlin requires knowledge of graph schemas, traversal semantics, edge direction-ality, and property-graph-specific constraints, making them difficult for non-expert operators to use. We introduce SEGRA, an experience-guided agent for enterprise text-to-Gremlin question answering. SEGRA integrates in-tent routing, schema- and taxonomy-grounded query generation, multi-shot decomposition, execution-aware verification, and a curriculum-bootstrapped skill library that reuses verified query patterns. On an enterprise IT support benchmark, SEGRA achieves a 7.0× higher mean judge score than backbone-only chain-of-thought prompting. Its skill library fur-ther reduces LLM calls by 20% and dollar cost by 18% relative to SEGRA without skills, while preserving answer quality. These results show that schema-grounded agent design and reusable execution experience improve both ac-curacy and efficiency for enterprise graph QA. 

1 Introduction 

Graph databases are widely used to model con-nected data in applications such as fraud detec-tion, knowledge management, recommendation, and enterprise analytics (Guo et al., 2020; Huang et al., 2022; Besta et al., 2023). Unlike relational databases, they represent information as vertices and edges, allowing connected entities to be tra-versed directly rather than reconstructed through joins (Rodriguez, 2015; Francis et al., 2018). This structure is well suited to enterprise IT support, where cases are linked to users, devices, symp-toms, root causes, resolutions, timestamps, and re-lated historical incidents. However, querying such 

> †Corresponding author. Work done during an internship at Amazon.

Figure 1: Overview of SEGRA framework. SEGRA takes natural-language questions as input and produces Gremlin queries to further generate natural-language answers. 

graphs requires fluency in graph query languages, schema labels, edge directionality, and label-versus-property semantics (Angles et al., 2017), creating a barrier for non-expert operators, who must rely on a few specialists to query the graph at production volume. Large language models offer a natural way to bridge this gap by translating user questions into executable database queries. Text-to-SQL has been extensively studied for relational databases, with mature benchmarks and methods for mapping nat-ural language to SQL (Pourreza and Rafiei, 2023; Chen et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2025). In contrast, text-to-graph-query generation remains less devel-oped. Graph databases introduce challenges be-yond SQL, including traversal semantics, schema-specific vertex and edge labels, and label-versus-property distinctions. While Cypher generation has received recent attention (Ozsoy et al., 2025; Lyu et al., 2026), Gremlin generation remains relatively understudied in the academic literature. Enterprise IT support graphs introduce more challenges beyond standard text-to-database set-tings. Diagnostic questions often require intermedi-ate operations such as comparisons, set differences, or top-N aggregation, making single-step Grem-lin generation brittle. The model must also align user phrasing with a domain taxonomy of symp-toms, causes, categories, and resolutions, rather than guessing schema labels from surface text. In arXiv:2607.22713v1 [cs.AI] 21 Jul 2026 addition, derived similarity edges encode domain-specific relationships whose traversal patterns are easy to misuse without explicit guidance. These challenges make enterprise IT support a demanding testbed for natural-language-to-Gremlin systems. We propose SEGRA , an experience-guided agent for Gremlin-based question answering over enterprise IT support graphs, as illustrated in Fig-ure 1. SEGRA grounds generation in the graph schema and taxonomy, supports similarity queries through dedicated traversal patterns, and decom-poses complex questions into verified sub-queries. Because public text-to-Gremlin benchmarks re-main limited, SEGRA is designed to accumulate experience from successful executions: verifier-passing executions are distilled into reusable skills that capture effective query patterns and reasoning strategies. These skills guide future queries and further reduce LLM calls and inference cost. SEGRA is a system-level framework that uni-fies intent routing, schema-grounded generation, similarity handling, multi-shot planning, execution-aware verification, and cross-query skill accumu-lation. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first text-to-Gremlin agent to pair reusable execution ex-perience with property-graph-specific correctness checks. Although evaluated on enterprise IT sup-port, the design applies to property-graph interfaces requiring domain grounding, derived relations, and multi-step query composition. 

2 Related Work 

Natural-language querying of structured data. 

Text-to-SQL has been extensively studied for rela-tional databases (Yu et al., 2018; Li et al., 2023), while text-to-graph-query generation has received recent attention primarily for Cypher (Ozsoy et al., 2025; Lyu et al., 2026), leaving Gremlin relatively underexplored. KGQA systems combine retrieval and reasoning over entity-relation graphs (Sun et al., 2024; Luo et al., 2024) but target answer retrieval rather than executable queries. SEGRA addresses the less-studied setting of generating ex-ecutable Gremlin over enterprise property graphs, whose schemas combine domain taxonomies, tem-poral constraints, and derived similarity edges, and whose queries require traversal operators, edge di-rectionality, aggregation, and execution constraints. 

Experience-guided LLM agents. Recent LLM agents improve without weight updates by accumu-lating reusable experience: Voyager (Wang et al., 2023) stores successful action programs in a skill library, AFlow (Zhang et al., 2025b) searches over workflows of LLM operators, and related systems explore persistent memory and reflection (Shinn et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2025a). The absence of public Text-to-Gremlin training data makes this di-rection a natural fit for enterprise property-graph QA: SEGRA reuses execution experience by rep-resenting complex questions as workflow DAGs, verifying candidates with deterministic constraints, and distilling verifier-passing runs into reusable skills indexed by question template. 

IT support question answering. LLM-based IT support work spans diagnostic dialogue (Kapoor et al., 2026; Ahuja et al., 2026), cloud-incident root-cause analysis (Ahmed et al., 2023; Roy et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2025), and natural-language-to-Gremlin generation (Yun et al., 2025). The closest, EICopilot (Yun et al., 2025), generates a single Gremlin script per question for entity-centric sum-marization using a static example bank. SEGRA instead targets analytical questions over a histor-ical support graph – aggregations, comparisons, top-N , set differences, and similarity traversal – motivating two design choices: multi-shot decom-position with a final merge, since single-shot gen-eration breaks on compositional questions; and an experience-guided skill library that grows online from verifier-passing runs. 

3 Method 

We denote the enterprise property graph by G and its live schema by Σ (vertex labels, edge labels, per-label property keys), discovered once at startup. Let 

T denote the domain taxonomy of case categories. As shown in Figure 2, SEGRA processes a natural-language question q in five stages. 1

Route. An intent classifier assigns q a route label 

ρ ∈ R = {DIR , SIM , PLAN }, each corresponding to a handler. 2 Ground. SEGRA grounds gen-eration in Σ and T via schema discovery, taxon-omy lookup, and vertex sampling, replacing model guesses with values from the live graph. The cho-sen handler also retrieves the top k skills from S

by cosine similarity to q, conditioning generation on past runs. 3 Plan. When ρ = PLAN , q is decomposed into a plan P of parallel and sequen-tial branches with a final merge step. 4 Verify. 

A runtime safety wrapper blocks unsafe Gremlin, an inline plan validator checks P, and a post-hoc property verifier audits captured queries against Figure 2: Pipeline of SEGRA framework: route to a handler, ground in the live schema and taxonomy with retrieved skills, optionally plan and execute branches, verify, and distill verifier-passing runs into the skill li-brary that guides future questions. 

four similarity-edge invariants. 5 Learn. Every verifier-passing run is distilled into a skill, regard-less of route. The library grows monotonically as evaluation proceeds, so SEGRA conditions later questions on a richer experience archive. The full procedure is formalized in Appendix B. 

3.1 Direct and Similarity Handlers 

The Direct ( HDIR ) and Similarity ( HSIM ) handlers both answer questions in a single LLM tool-use loop that emits one Gremlin query against G. They differ in what the question targets: HDIR filters and aggregates over case properties and the taxonomy (e.g., “how many VPN cases were resolved last quarter?” ), while HSIM traverses derived similar-ity edges between cases to retrieve solved history (e.g., “what resolutions worked for cases similar to V123?” ). Both ground generation in Σ and T ,since the model has no view of the live graph and would otherwise have to guess vertex labels and tax-onomy values from training-time knowledge. Both also retrieve relevant skills from S before genera-tion (§3.4), giving the model in-context Gremlin patterns that succeeded on similar past questions. 

Direct ( HDIR ). This handler runs an LLM tool-use loop with five tools. SCHEMA -DISCOVERY 

retrieves Σ from the live graph G and injects it into the system prompt. TAXONOMY -LOOKUP re-solves user phrasing to values in the hierarchical taxonomy T , returning matching entries ranked into strong matches (the topic appears as a token in the entry name) and weak matches (the topic only appears in the description); strong matches are used directly in P.within(...) filters, while weak matches are surfaced with explicit instructions to in-clude them only when the description confirms rel-evance. VERTEX -SAMPLING returns up to three real vertices of a given label with their property values, enabling the model to verify property for-mats before composing filters. TEXT -SEARCH 

runs TextP.containing(topic) against the free-text content property of reason , symptoms ,and rootCause vertices and reports per-label case counts plus three sample texts, recovering questions whose topics lack taxonomy entries. 

> EXECUTE

-GREMLIN forwards the LLM-emitted Gremlin to the runtime safety wrapper (§3.3) and then to G, returning results back into the loop. 

Similarity ( HSIM ). This handler runs the base loop with three additional tools that cover two execu-tion patterns: an anchored walk from a referenced case, and a free-text seeded walk when no case is referenced. The intent router selects the pattern by checking q for a case-ID, so the handler dispatches to the right tools without runtime disambiguation. The anchored walk handles questions like “what is similar to case V123?” . RESOLVE -CASE veri-fies the referenced case exists and reports which of its content links (to reason, symptoms, root cause) are populated, so the model picks a feasible sim-ilarity edge. SIMILAR -CASES then executes the canonical bidirectional walk ( case → entity →

bothE (similar* ) → entity → case ) with a score threshold, avoiding the asymmetric-traversal fail-ure mode where directional outE drops a substan-tial fraction of peers. The free-text seeded walk handles questions like “find cases like a VPN authentication fail-ure” . VECTOR -SEARCH -CASES retrieves cases by free-text similarity in embedding space, pro-viding seeds that the model can optionally chain into SIMILAR -CASES to expand. The post-hoc property verifier (§3.3) audits captured similarity queries from both patterns offline. 

3.2 Plan: Multi-shot Decomposition 

The Plan handler HPLAN targets questions that no single Gremlin query can answer, such as compar-isons ( “compare resolution rate of VPN vs. Out-look” ), set differences, and top-N -then-aggregate queries. It decomposes the question into a struc-tured plan P of dependent branches, dispatches each branch through the router, and merges branch outputs into a final answer. 

Operators. HPLAN exposes three tools to the LLM. 

> PLAN

-QUERY produces P, specifying branches with their dependencies, sub-question texts, target handlers ρb ∈ R \ { PLAN }, and a merge strategy; the plan is validated inline (§3.3) before execu-tion. RUN -BRANCH dispatches each branch re-cursively through the router into Hρb ; independent branches run in parallel. MERGE -RESULTS com-bines branch outputs to produce the final answer without further graph traversal. 

Use of retrieved skills. Like the Direct and Sim-ilarity handlers, HPLAN retrieves skills from S at the Ground stage, but uses them more heavily: re-trieved skills surface past plan structures and per-branch Gremlin templates that the planner adapts to the new question. Multi-shot questions benefit most from this guidance, since past worked ex-amples constrain a much larger decision space — where to split the question, what merge strategy applies, and how each branch should be phrased — than single-query routes face. 

3.3 Verify: Correctness Mechanisms 

SEGRA enforces correctness through three mecha-nisms at different stages of the pipeline: a runtime sanitiser and a plan validator guard execution inline, while a post-hoc property verifier audits captured queries offline and gates skill extraction. 

Runtime safety wrapper. Every Gremlin query emitted by EXECUTE -GREMLIN passes through a sanitiser before reaching G. It strips markdown fences, blocks mutations, rejects full-graph scans, and auto-injects .limit( N )

on non-aggregating queries. We extend the blocklist with bare similarity-edge scans (e.g., 

g.E().hasLabel(’similarReason’) ), which are unsafe on graphs with millions of edges per similarity label. Violations return to the tool-use loop as structured errors for correction. 

Inline plan validator. Plans from PLAN -QUERY 

are validated before execution: each branch must declare a route hint ρb ∈ R \ { PLAN }, the merge strategy must come from a fixed vocabulary, the dependency graph must be acyclic, and recursion through RUN -BRANCH is bounded. Invalid plans are rejected, preventing malformed decompositions from reaching G.

Post-hoc property verifier. A regex-based of-fline checker audits four similarity-edge correct-ness properties on the captured Gremlin history (full definitions in Appendix C). The verifier walks every captured query regardless of which handler produced it. A run that passes all properties counts as verifier-pass , which gates skill extraction (§3.4). 

3.4 Learn: Skill Library 

The skill library S persists experience across runs with an in-memory cosine-similarity index over question embeddings. All three handlers ( HDIR ,

HSIM , HPLAN ) consult S during the Ground stage and contribute to it after a verifier-passing run. 

Skill schema. A skill records the question tem-plate, the route that answered it, and the captured Gremlin templates with entity-specific tokens ab-stracted; multi-shot skills additionally record the plan structure and merge strategy. 

Retrieval. For each question, the library returns the top k skills by cosine similarity to the question embedding. HDIR and HSIM see worked Gremlin templates as in-context examples; HPLAN addition-ally sees plan structures it can adapt. 

Online accumulation. On the shuffled evaluation set, SEGRA processes questions sequentially: each handler retrieves from S, generates, and writes back a new skill when its run is verifier-pass and judged successful. Each question therefore re-trieves from a strictly larger library, accumulating experience across the evaluation sequence rather than across separate training and test phases. We isolate this effect with a baseline that runs the same questions in the same order with S disabled (§5). 

4 Experimental Setup 

We evaluate SEGRA on an enterprise IT sup-port QA graph using a benchmark of 156 natural-language questions that mirror the analytical and diagnostic queries operators issue in production. The questions are constructed by the authors from recurring enterprise IT support information needs, spanning direct lookup, taxonomy-based aggrega-tion, similarity-driven retrieval, and multi-step diag-nostic analysis. Our primary deployment-oriented backbone is a commercially hosted instruction-following LLM in the Medium tier, selected to re-flect a strong cost–quality tradeoff for practical deployment. To assess whether SEGRA’s gains depend on backbone capability, we also evaluate 

Small and Large tier backbones under the same protocol. We anonymize the backbone identities to keep the evaluation focused on the SEGRA frame-work rather than on benchmarking or ranking spe-cific commercial models. 1 Full details of the graph database and question set are in Section D. 

> 1The underlying commercial backbone identities are omit-ted due to business confidentiality constraints. The tier assign-ments are fixed across all experiments, and all systems are evaluated under the same protocol.

4.1 Systems Comparison 

We compare three systems that together stage the contribution of SEGRA into a backbone-only base-line, the architecture without skill memory, and the architecture with skill memory. All three share the same generator LLM, graph access, evaluation order, and validation protocol, and differ only in which mechanisms they expose. 1 CoT. A sin-gle LLM call asked to emit a Gremlin query with chain-of-thought reasoning. No live schema, no tools, no skill library. Establishes the floor: how well a generic LLM can guess at an unseen schema. 2 Few-shot prompting CoT. A single LLM call with the live schema Σ in the prompt and five worked (question, Gremlin) examples, but no tools, no execution feedback, and no skill library. Tests whether richer prompting alone, without an agent loop, can close the gap to SEGRA. 3 SEGRA w/o skills. Full SEGRA architecture (router, planner, handlers, tool surface, post-hoc verifier) with the skill library S disabled: retrieval returns the empty set, and runs do not write skills back. Every ques-tion is dispatched through the same handler graph as SEGRA w/ skills, so this isolates the contribu-tion of S from the contribution of the architecture itself. 4 SEGRA w/ skills. The complete sys-tem. The router classifies intent, retrieved skills condition both the planner outer loop and every dis-patched handler sub-loop, and verified runs write skills back into S via Alg. 3. Matches §3 and is the headline system in §5. 

4.2 Evaluation Metrics LLM-as-judge. A judge LLM scores each run on five orthogonal dimensions – intent fidelity , exe-cution validity , grounding , completeness , and use-fulness – each on a 0–4 scale, with the aggregate 

overall_score taken as the floor of the mean. The judge sees the question, the generated Gremlin, the executed result, and the answer, but not which system produced the run. We use OpenAI GPT-5.4 with medium reasoning as the automatic judge. Since the generator backbones (§4) come from a different model provider, this choice avoids the risk of self-preference in evaluation. Full per-dimension definitions and score anchors are in Appendix D. 

Cost and efficiency. For each run we log the tool-use turns taken by the generator (one turn per LLM call, planner outer loop plus all sub-loops) and the 

token totals : input tokens, output tokens, cache-read input tokens, and cache-creation input tokens. We report mean tokens and mean turns per ques-tion for each system, broken down by reasoning shape, so the cost of routing, decomposition, and skill retrieval can be read alongside their accuracy contribution. Multi-shot questions accumulate to-kens and turns across the planner outer loop and every branch sub-run; we report the per-question total to keep comparisons end-to-end. 

5 Results 

This section compares SEGRA with the base-lines in §4.1. We report results across Small ,

Medium , Large generator backbones to test robust-ness across model tiers. 

5.1 Main Results 

Table 1 reports mean judge score, mean LLM calls, and mean dollar cost per question. SEGRA changes the performance regime: backbone-only CoT performs poorly on all model tiers, and adding the schema with five worked examples (Few-shot CoT) raises score by 0.16 –0.29 points but is still far short of the SEGRA architecture. Even Large 

with Few-shot CoT scores 0.47 , below Small run-ning SEGRA without skills ( 1.48 ). This shows that neither model scale nor richer prompting alone solves enterprise text-to-Gremlin QA; the system needs schema-grounded planning, tool use, execu-tion feedback, and verification. The agent architecture accounts for the largest quality gain. Moving from Few-shot CoT to SEGRA without skills improves mean score by 

+1 .07 on Small , +1 .44 on Medium , and +1 .56 on 

Large . On our primary Medium backbone, SEGRA without skills lifts the score from 0.50 to 1.94 ,bringing the system close to the judge pass thresh-old. With skills enabled, Medium reaches 2.03 ,crossing the threshold while reducing the average number of LLM calls from 11 .3 to 9.0. Few-shot CoT’s failure mode is concentrated on multi-shot questions: with no opportunity to decompose, retry, or self-correct. SEGRA’s planner and handler loops convert these into branch-and-merge plans with per-branch execution feedback, which is what the architecture lift in the table reflects. The skill library mainly improves efficiency rather than replacing the architecture. Across all three backbones, adding S preserves or slightly improves quality while reducing both calls and cost: calls drop by 21% on Small , 20% on Medium ,and 26% on Large , with corresponding cost reduc-Small Medium Large                                                

> System Score Calls $/q Score Calls $/q Score Calls $/q CoT 0.12 1.0 0.003 0.29 1.0 0.008 0.31 1.0 0.042 Few-shot CoT 0.41 1.0 0.006 0.50 1.0 0.018 0.47 1.0 0.111 SEGRA w/o S1.48 12.9 0.118 1.94 11.3 0.307 2.03 8.8 1.498
> SEGRA w/ S1.67 10.2 0.095 2.03 9.0 0.253 2.06 6.5 1.074

Table 1: Mean judge score, mean LLM calls per ques-tion, and mean cost per question by system and back-bone. SEGRA improves quality substantially, and the skill library further reduces cost/calls. 

Figure 3: Quality–cost and quality–calls trade-offs. SEGRA architecture lifts every backbone to better score and lower cost and fewer calls. 

tions of 19% , 18% , and 28% . Thus, SEGRA’s two components play complementary roles: the agent architecture provides the quality lift, and the skill library recovers a substantial fraction of the tool-use overhead by reusing verified query patterns. 5.2 Model-Tier Trade-offs 

Figure 3 compares quality against runtime cost and LLM calls across model tiers. SEGRA improves the quality–cost trade-off substantially: Medium 

with SEGRA and skills reaches the same mean score as Large with SEGRA without skills ( 2.03 ), while costing roughly 1/6 as much. It is also within 0.03 points of the best-scoring configura-tion, Large with skills, at less than 1/4 of the cost. These results show that system design can partially substitute for model scale. The SEGRA architec-ture provides the main quality gain, while the skill library improves efficiency by reducing calls and cost without degrading quality. In practical terms, SEGRA makes a mid-tier backbone competitive with a substantially larger model, and skills im-prove the efficiency of every backbone. 

5.3 Human Evaluation 

We manually evaluate SEGRA w/ S with the 

Medium backbone on all 156 benchmark questions. Two annotators independently score each output us-ing the same 0–4 rubric as the LLM judge. Results are reported by handler: direct querying ( HDIR ,

n = 36 ), similarity traversal ( HSIM , n = 20 ), and planner-based multi-shot reasoning ( HPLAN ,

Figure 4: Human and LLM judge mean scores for SEGRA w/ S, stratified by handler. Error bars show 95% confidence intervals. 

n = 100 ). Annotators see the question, generated Gremlin, execution result, and final answer, but not the judge score; LLM-generated Gremlin explana-tions are used only as annotation aids. Detailed inter-annotator results are included in Section E.1. Figure 4 shows that both annotators rate SEGRA higher than the automatic judge across all handlers. Averaged human scores exceed judge scores by 

0.96 on HDIR , 1.62 on HSIM , and 0.92 on HPLAN .The disagreement is one-sided: among the 35 ques-tions where the averaged human score differs from the judge by at least two points, the judge is lower in every case. HDIR is the strongest handler, with over 80% of direct-query outputs rated perfect by both annotators and no poor or wrong cases. Over-all, the judge provides a conservative scalable met-ric, especially for similarity and planner outputs; we therefore interpret judge scores as lower-bound estimates of absolute quality and complement them with a strict count-accuracy analysis in Section A. 

6 Conclusion 

We presented SEGRA, an experience-guided frame-work for Gremlin-based question answering over enterprise IT support graphs. SEGRA combines schema- and taxonomy-grounded query generation, similarity-aware traversal handling, planner-based decomposition, execution-aware verification, and a skill library that reuses verified query patterns across questions. Experiments show that SEGRA substantially improves over backbone-only chain-of-thought prompting, while the skill library re-duces LLM calls and cost without degrading an-swer quality. Human evaluation further suggests that automatic judge scores are conservative, espe-cially for planner-based multi-step outputs. Over-all, SEGRA shows that structured agent design and reusable execution experience can make natural-language interfaces to property graphs more accu-rate, efficient, and deployable. The agent design (in-tent routing, multi-shot decomposition and merge, execution-aware verification, and cross-query skill reuse) is independent of Gremlin and of IT sup-port. The same design therefore transfers to other graph query languages such as Cypher and to other property-graph domains. 

Limitations 

SEGRA is evaluated on a single enterprise IT sup-port graph, so broader application on other property graphs remains to be validated. The system also as-sumes access to schema tools, execution feedback, and verifier rules. In longer deployments, the skill library may require maintenance under schema drift. Finally, human evaluation covers only the primary configuration and we use the automatic judge for the full system-by-backbone comparison, leaving broader human evaluation for future work. 

References 

Toufique Ahmed, Supriyo Ghosh, Chetan Bansal, Thomas Zimmermann, Xuchao Zhang, and Saravan Rajmohan. 2023. Recommending root-cause and mitigation steps for cloud incidents using large lan-guage models. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th Interna-tional Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) ,pages 1737–1749. IEEE. Sarthak Ahuja, Neda Kordjazi, Evren Yortucboylu, Vishaal Kapoor, Mariam Dundua, Yiming Li, Derek Ho, Vaibhavi Padala, Jennifer Whitted, and Re-becca Steinert. 2026. Vigil: Towards edge-extended agentic ai for enterprise it support. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.16110 .Renzo Angles, Marcelo Arenas, Pablo Barceló, Aidan Hogan, Juan Reutter, and Domagoj Vrgoˇ c. 2017. Foundations of modern query languages for graph databases. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) ,50(5):1–40. Maciej Besta, Robert Gerstenberger, Emanuel Peter, Marc Fischer, Michał Podstawski, Claude Barthels, Gustavo Alonso, and Torsten Hoefler. 2023. Demys-tifying graph databases: Analysis and taxonomy of data organization, system designs, and graph queries. 

ACM Computing Surveys , 56(2):1–40. Peter Baile Chen, Devin Yang, Weiyue Li, Fabian Wenz, Yi Zhang, Nesime Tatbul, Michael Cafarella, Ça˘ gatay Demiralp, and Michael Stonebraker. 2024. Beaver: an enterprise benchmark for text-to-sql. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.02038 .Yinfang Chen, Manish Shetty, Gagan Somashekar, Minghua Ma, Yogesh Simmhan, Jonathan Mace, Chetan Bansal, Rujia Wang, and Saravan Rajmohan. 2025. Aiopslab: A holistic framework to evaluate ai agents for enabling autonomous clouds. Proceedings of Machine Learning and Systems , 7. Nadime Francis, Alastair Green, Paolo Guagliardo, Leonid Libkin, Tobias Lindaaker, Victor Marsault, Stefan Plantikow, Mats Rydberg, Petra Selmer, and Andrés Taylor. 2018. Cypher: An evolving query language for property graphs. In Proceedings of the 2018 international conference on management of data , pages 1433–1445. Qingyu Guo, Fuzhen Zhuang, Chuan Qin, Hengshu Zhu, Xing Xie, Hui Xiong, and Qing He. 2020. A survey on knowledge graph-based recommender sys-tems. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 34(8):3549–3568. Xuanwen Huang, Yang Yang, Yang Wang, Chunping Wang, Zhisheng Zhang, Jiarong Xu, Lei Chen, and Michalis Vazirgiannis. 2022. Dgraph: A large-scale financial dataset for graph anomaly detection. Ad-vances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,35:22765–22777. Vishaal Kapoor, Mariam Dundua, Sarthak Ahuja, Neda Kordjazi, Evren Yortucboylu, Vaibhavi Padala, Derek Ho, Jennifer Whitted, and Rebecca Steinert. 2026. Dqa: Diagnostic question answering for it support. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.05350 .Jinyang Li, Binyuan Hui, Ge Qu, Jiaxi Yang, Binhua Li, Bowen Li, Bailin Wang, Bowen Qin, Ruiying Geng, Nan Huo, and 1 others. 2023. Can llm already serve as a database interface? a big bench for large-scale database grounded text-to-sqls. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36:42330–42357. Haoran Luo, E Haihong, Zichen Tang, Shiyao Peng, Yikai Guo, Wentai Zhang, Chenghao Ma, Guanting Dong, Meina Song, Wei Lin, and 1 others. 2024. Chatkbqa: A generate-then-retrieve framework for knowledge base question answering with fine-tuned large language models. In Findings of the association for computational linguistics: ACL 2024 , pages 2039– 2056. Songlin Lyu, Lujie Ban, Zihang Wu, Tianqi Luo, Jirong Liu, Chenhao Ma, Yuyu Luo, Nan Tang, Shipeng Qi, Heng Lin, and 1 others. 2026. Text2gql-bench: A text to graph query language benchmark [ex-periment, analysis & benchmark]. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.11745 .Makbule Gulcin Ozsoy, Leila Messallem, Jon Besga, and Gianandrea Minneci. 2025. Text2cypher: Bridg-ing natural language and graph databases. In Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on Generative AI and Knowledge Graphs (GenAIK) , pages 100–108. Mohammadreza Pourreza and Davood Rafiei. 2023. Din-sql: Decomposed in-context learning of text-to-sql with self-correction. Advances in neural infor-mation processing systems , 36:36339–36348. Marko A Rodriguez. 2015. The gremlin graph traversal machine and language (invited talk). In Proceedings of the 15th symposium on database programming languages , pages 1–10. Devjeet Roy, Xuchao Zhang, Rashi Bhave, Chetan Bansal, Pedro Las-Casas, Rodrigo Fonseca, and Sar-avan Rajmohan. 2024. Exploring llm-based agents for root cause analysis. In Companion proceedings of the 32nd ACM international conference on the foundations of software engineering , pages 208–219. Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. Re-flexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36:8634–8652. Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun Gong, Lionel Ni, Heung-Yeung Shum, and Jian Guo. 2024. Think-on-graph: Deep and responsible reasoning of large language model on knowledge graph. In International Con-ference on Learning Representations , volume 2024, pages 3868–3898. Bing Wang, Changyu Ren, Jian Yang, Xinnian Liang, Ji-aqi Bai, Linzheng Chai, Zhao Yan, Qian-Wen Zhang, Di Yin, Xing Sun, and 1 others. 2025. Mac-sql: A multi-agent collaborative framework for text-to-sql. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics , pages 540–557. Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Man-dlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and Anima Anandkumar. 2023. Voyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.16291 .Tao Yu, Rui Zhang, Kai Yang, Michihiro Yasunaga, Dongxu Wang, Zifan Li, James Ma, Irene Li, Qingn-ing Yao, Shanelle Roman, and 1 others. 2018. Spider: A large-scale human-labeled dataset for complex and cross-domain semantic parsing and text-to-sql task. In Proceedings of the 2018 conference on empiri-cal methods in natural language processing , pages 3911–3921. Yuhui Yun, Huilong Ye, Jingfeng Deng, Ruojia Li, Xinru Li, Li Li, and Haoyi Xiong. 2025. Eicopi-lot: Search and explore enterprise information over large-scale knowledge graphs with llm-driven agents. In 2025 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (BigData) , pages 2689–2696. IEEE. Jenny Zhang, Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, Robert Lange, and Jeff Clune. 2025a. Darwin godel machine: Open-ended evolution of self-improving agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.22954 .Jiayi Zhang, Jinyu Xiang, Zhaoyang Yu, Fengwei Teng, Xionghui Chen, Jiaqi Chen, Mingchen Zhuge, Xin Cheng, Sirui Hong, Jinlin Wang, and 1 others. 2025b. Aflow: Automating agentic workflow generation. In 

International Conference on Learning Representa-tions , volume 2025, pages 34040–34077. 

A Strict Count-Accuracy Evaluation 

To further study answer quality under deterministic ground truth, we construct a scalar-count analytic subset from the 156-question evaluation bench-mark. We include only questions whose gold solution can be represented as a single Gremlin query returning a scalar count. For each included question, a human annotator manually writes the gold Gremlin query, executes it on the graph, and uses the returned count as the reference answer. This filtering excludes display-style questions, list-valued answers, schema-introspection questions, free-form explanations, and multi-shot questions whose gold solution requires decomposition. The resulting subset contains n = 60 questions. It is not randomly sampled; it is the eligible subset for which human-written query ground truth and scalar-count comparison are well defined. For each question qi, let gi be the human-written gold Gremlin query and let bgi be the query pro-duced by SEGRA. We report two diagnostics. 

Query match measures whether the generated query has the same structure as the human-written gold query after a normalizer C(·) removes known meaning-preserving differences, such as format-ting, equivalent interval predicates, symbolic time-window literals, contact–case anchoring variants, and result-preserving deduplication. For exam-ple, a generated query using P.between(a,b) and a gold query using P.gte(a).and(P.lt(b)) are treated as matching if the two traversals are other-wise identical. Similarly, harmless differences in whitespace, quote style, or redundant label checks after a fixed vertex anchor are ignored. The metric is exact equality after normalization: 

Acc query = 1

n

> n

X

> i=1

1C(ˆ gi) = C(gi) .

Execution match measures whether the generated query returns the same scalar count as the human-written gold query. Let yi = Exec( gi) and byi =Exec( bgi). We count an execution as correct when 

Acc exec = 1

n

> n

X

> i=1

1

n ˆyi − yi

max( |yi|, 1) ≤ 0.02 

o

.

We report the average query-match and execution-match accuracy over the 60-question subset. Query match evaluates agreement with the manually writ-ten Gremlin structure; execution match evaluates agreement with the human-established scalar an-swer. 

Results. Table 2 reports both metrics for SEGRA w/ S across the three backbones. Medium achieves the highest execution match ( 54% ), while Large 

achieves the highest query match ( 48% ). This shows that structural agreement and answer agree-ment are related but not identical: a model may generate a different traversal while still computing the correct count.             

> Backbone Acc query Acc exec
> Small 35% 41%
> Medium 40% 54 %
> Large 48 %44%
> Table 2: Query match and execution match on the n=60 scalar-count analytic subset for SEGRA w/ S.

This subset analysis complements the judge-based and human evaluations by isolating cases where exact scalar-count comparison against human-written Gremlin ground truth is possible. We treat these metrics as diagnostics rather than headline quality measures because they do not cap-ture partial correctness, alternative valid decom-positions, or all semantically equivalent Gremlin formulations. 

B Full Algorithm 

This appendix gives the complete SEGRA evalua-tion procedure, factored into three algorithms: the outer question-stream loop (Alg. 1), the multi-shot decomposition that runs when the router selects the plan handler (Alg. 2), and the post-run skill update that gates the library on the verifier (Alg. 3). All three operate on the live property graph G with schema Σ, the domain taxonomy T , the routing function R, and the persistent skill library S.

Outer loop (Alg. 1). Questions arrive one at a time in a fixed shuffled order, mirroring how an an-alyst would issue them in production. For each question q, SEGRA routes via R, retrieves the top k skills from S by cosine similarity to q, and dispatches to the appropriate handler. Direct and Similarity questions run in a single tool-use loop (Hρ); plan questions invoke Alg. 2. After the run, UPDATE LIBRARY inspects the captured run record and writes a skill back to S if the verifier accepts it. Each subsequent question therefore retrieves from a strictly larger library; the no-memory baseline disables the write step and feeds the empty S0 to every question. 

Multi-shot decomposition (Alg. 2). The plan handler first emits a plan tree P with branches, de-pendencies, target handlers, and a merge strategy, conditioned on the retrieved skills. The plan val-idator (§3.3) checks P before any branch executes; on failure, it returns the specific validation error (e.g., a duplicate branch id, an unknown route hint, a cycle in the dependency graph) to the planner LLM as the tool result. The LLM may correct the plan and re-invoke PLAN -QUERY on a sub-sequent turn, subject to the planner’s overall turn budget (14 turns shared across plan, dispatch, and merge). Once a valid plan is accepted, the plan-ner dispatches each branch in P back through the router into Hρb with ρb̸ = PLAN , so a branch is itself a single-handler tool-use loop. In our imple-mentation, branches are dispatched in topological order of their declared dependencies, with inde-pendent branches running in parallel. After all branches return, MERGE -RESULTS produces the final answer from branch outputs without further graph traversal. The captured Gremlin history of every branch is collected into the run record for the verifier. 

Library update (Alg. 3). The post-hoc property verifier Vprop (Appendix C) runs over every cap-tured Gremlin query in the run record and reports a verifier-pass flag. A skill is written to S only when the run is both verifier-pass and judged suc-cessful by the LLM judge with score ≥ 2, ensuring that low-quality or structurally invalid runs cannot pollute the library. The skill schema is the same regardless of route (question template, route la-bel, abstracted Gremlin templates), with multi-shot skills additionally recording the plan structure and merge strategy. 

C Post-Hoc Property Verifier 

The verifier in §3.3 audits captured Gremlin queries against four similarity-edge correctness properties. This appendix gives the full defini-tion of each property, the failure mode it pre-vents, and the regex pattern used to detect vi-olations. Notation: Esim = {similarReason ,

similarSymptoms , similarRootCause } is the set of similarity edge labels, and the within-case pair-ing Φ maps each similarity edge to the within-case edge that brackets it: 

Φ( similarReason ) = hasReason ,

Φ( similarSymptoms ) = exhibits ,

Φ( similarRootCause ) = attributedTo .

The verifier walks the captured Gremlin history from each run; a run record is verifier-pass iff all Algorithm 1 SEGRA: question evaluation with skill accumulation. 

Require: Question stream Q; initial library S0;router R; live schema Σ; taxonomy T ; re-trieval budget k. 

> 1:

S ← S 0 

> 2:

for q ∈ Q in fixed order do  

> 3:

ρ ← R(q)

▷ intent classification: ρ ∈ { DIR , SIM , PLAN } 

> 4:

Kq ← RETRIEVE (S, q, k )

▷ top-k skills by cosine similarity  

> 5:

if ρ = PLAN then  

> 6:

ans , record ← Alg. 2( q, Σ, T , Kq) 

> 7:

else  

> 8:

ans , record ← Hρ(q, Σ, T , Kq)

▷ single-handler tool-use loop  

> 9:

end if  

> 10:

S ← Alg. 3( S, record ) 

> 11:

end for  

> 12:

return answers and final S

Algorithm 2 PLAN -R UN -M ERGE : multi-shot de-composition invoked from Alg. 1 when ρ = PLAN .

Require: q, Σ, T , retrieved skills Kq. 

> 1:

P ← PLAN -QUERY (q, Σ, T , Kq)

▷ plan tree with branches and merge m 

> 2:

if plan validator rejects P then  

> 3:

return validation error as tool result  

> 4:

end if  

> 5:

for branch b in P do  

> 6:

rb ← Hρb (qb, Σ, T , Kq)

▷ recursive dispatch via R, ρb̸ = PLAN  

> 7:

end for  

> 8:

ans ← MERGE -RESULTS ({rb}b, m )

▷ LLM-only step, no graph traversal  

> 9:

return ans , run record (plan, branch outputs, Gremlin history) four properties hold on every captured query. Prop-erties P1–P4 are vacuously PASS on queries that contain no similarity edge step (e.g., Direct route queries that filter by property only). 

P1: Window-on-Destination Rationale. Our evaluation graph is a fixed snap-shot of the production support graph with all cases tagged by a createdAt timestamp, and we restrict every evaluation query to a fixed experiment win-dow [WIN_LO , WIN_HI ] so that ground-truth counts and aggregates are reproducible across runs. The verifier therefore audits where in a similarity 

Algorithm 3 UPDATE LIBRARY : post-run skill ex-traction gated by the verifier and the judge. 

Require: Library S; run record from Alg. 1 (Gremlin history, plan, branch outputs, final answer).  

> 1:

pass ← Vprop (record.gremlin_history )

▷ Appendix C  

> 2:

score ← JUDGE (record )

▷ LLM judge, score ∈ { 0, 1, 2, 3, 4} 

> 3:

if pass and score ≥ 2 then  

> 4:

s ← EXTRACT SKILL (record )

▷ question template, route, abstracted Gremlin; plan + merge if ρ = PLAN  

> 5:

S ← S ∪ { s} 

> 6:

end if  

> 7:

return S

walk the window predicate appears: P1 enforces the implementation choice that the window must scope the peer cases returned by the similarity walk, not just the anchor case the walk starts from. 

Statement. Every query containing a similarity-edge step must apply the time-window predicate 

P.between (WIN_LO , WIN_HI ) after the post-similarity .in( Φ( e)) step that returns to a case vertex, not on the anchor. 

Failure mode prevented. Applying the window filter on the anchor case (before the similarity hop) restricts the source case to the experiment window, but lets the walk return peers from any time pe-riod. Conversely, applying it on the destination case restricts the peer set itself, which is the in-tended scoping for similarity questions over the experiment window. 

Detection. Pass iff (a) the query contains 

P.between (WIN_LO , WIN_HI ) at least once, and (b) at least one .in( Φ( e)) step is followed by the window predicate later in the query string. Queries that have no .in( Φ( e)) step (e.g., walks that end at the entity vertex without returning to a case) are vacuously PASS .

P2: Threshold-on-Edge Statement. For every similarity-edge step 

bothE (e), outE (e), or inE (e), with e ∈ E sim , the query must apply .has(’similarityScore’, P.gte( θ)) between the edge step and the next vertex step .otherV() , .inV() , or .outV() .Failure mode prevented. Without an explicit threshold, similarity walks return all peers regard-less of similarity score, which dilutes the result set with low-similarity matches. Applying the thresh-old after the vertex step instead of on the edge filters the wrong object — vertices don’t carry the similarity score; the edge does. 

Detection. For each similarity-edge step, find the substring between it and the next ver-tex step. Pass iff every such substring con-tains .has(‘similarityScore’, P.gte(...)) .Edge steps with no following vertex step (mal-formed traversals) are vacuously PASS since they do not reach a peer. 

P3: Entity-Bracket Statement. Every similarity-edge step with edge 

e ∈ Esim must be preceded by a within-case 

.out( Φ( e)) step earlier in the query. 

Failure mode prevented. Similarity edges connect content vertices (reason , symptoms ,

rootCause ), not cases directly. Walking from a case to a similarity edge without first traversing the corresponding within-case edge is a structural error: the traversal has no source content vertex on which to attach the similarity step. 

Detection. For each occurrence of a sim-ilarity edge with label e, scan the query string before the edge step and require that 

.out( Φ( e)) appears at least once. Note the pairing is per-label: similarReason re-quires .out(‘hasReason’) specifically, not 

.out(‘exhibits’) or .out(‘attributedTo’) .

P4: Anchor-by-Id Statement. Case anchors must be addressed by vertex id, either via g.V(‘uuid’) or via 

.hasId(‘uuid’) . The label-and-property form 

g.V().has(‘case’, ‘id’, ‘uuid’) addresses an id property that does not exist on case vertices and is forbidden. 

Failure mode prevented. Cases in the live graph do not carry an id property; their iden-tity is the vertex id itself. Filtering on 

.has(‘case’, ‘id’, ‘uuid’) matches zero ver-tices and silently returns an empty result, which the LLM may misinterpret as a real (negative) finding. 

Detection. Reject any query containing the literal substring pattern V().has(‘case’, ‘id’, ...) .Other anchoring forms ( g.V(‘uuid’) , .hasId ) are not flagged. 

Verifier Output 

For each captured Gremlin query, the verifier emits a per-property record: 2   

> {"P1_window_on_destination": {"pass": bool, " reason": str | null}, "P2_threshold_on_edge": {"pass": bool, " reason": str | null}, "P3_entity_bracket": {"pass": bool, " reason": str | null}, "P4_anchor_by_tilde_id": {"pass": bool, " reason": str | null} }

A failing property surfaces a structured reason 

string identifying the offending substring or posi-tion. The run-level verifier-pass flag is the conjunc-tion of all per-query per-property results across the captured Gremlin history. 

D Detailed Experimental Setup 

Graph Database. SEGRA queries an enterprise IT support property graph, backed by a managed graph database and accessed through Gremlin, at production scale. Each case vertex is connected to free-text content vertices ( vc1 , v c2 , v c3 ) covering incident description, observed behavior, and diag-nosed cause), resolution vertices, a multi-level hier-archical taxonomy of case categories, and context vertices capturing the parties involved and device/-compliance state. Derived similarity-edge labels 

Esim = {e1, e 2, e 3} connect content vertices that share semantic content, each carrying a continuous similarity score used as a threshold for filtering peers (P2 in Appendix C). Every case carries a cre-ation timestamp, used by the experiment-window predicate for reproducibility (P1). SEGRA only reads from the graph and never modifies it. 

Dataset. The benchmark has 166 questions split between a 10-question bootstrap set (used to seed 

S before evaluation) and a 156-question evaluation set. The evaluation set is partitioned by reasoning shape: • 36 single-shot questions answered by HDIR –filter-and-count, top-N ranking, and aggregate questions over case properties and the taxonomy.      

> 2The field name P4_anchor_by_tilde_id refers to Grem-lin’s ~id notation for vertex IDs (the meta-id, distinct from a property named id ); the leading tilde is dropped from the JSON key for compatibility.

• 20 similarity-anchored questions answered by 

HSIM – cross-case similarity questions over de-rived similar* edges, either anchored to a refer-enced case or seeded by free-text retrieval. • 100 multi-shot questions answered by HPLAN –compositional questions that no single Gremlin query can answer. The 100 multi-shot questions span 20 categories drawn from a failure-mode analysis of pilot runs. Categories include parallel comparisons ( “compare resolution rate of VPN vs. Outlook” ), top-N ana-lytics with sub-aggregation, set differences across temporal windows, recurrence patterns over tax-onomic categories, and similarity-driven aggrega-tions. The category-level distribution drives the curriculum-bootstrap procedure described in §3.4. We also include examples from our dataset in Ta-ble 3 with the natural-language question, the Grem-lin issued, and the final answer. The Direct example issues a single aggregation query; the Similarity example anchors on a case and walks the bidirec-tional similarity edge with score and time-window filters; the Multi-shot example is decomposed by the planner into two parallel branches whose results are combined by the merge step.                          

> Example for HDIR
> Question: How many cases were created in total?
> Gremlin: g.V().hasLabel(’case’).count()
> Answer: 123,456 cases were created in the experiment window.
> Example for HSIM
> Question: How many in-window cases share similar symp-toms with case 4f4ded41-... above the production thresh-old?
> Gremlin: g.V(’4f4ded41-...’).hasLabel(’case’). out(’exhibits’).bothE(’similarSymptoms’). has(’similarityScore’, P.gte(0.675)).otherV(). in(’exhibits’).hasLabel(’case’). hasId(P.neq(’4f4ded41-...’)).dedup().count()
> Answer: 4 in-window cases share similar symptoms at or above the production threshold ( ≥0.675 ).
> Example for HPLAN
> Question: Which has more cases – Mac or Windows?
> Plan: parallel_compare ; two independent branches, merged with compare_ratios .
> Gremlin 1: g.V().hasLabel(’case’).where(out( ’hasTelemetry’).has(’devicePlatform’, ’MAC’)).count() →12,345.
> Gremlin 2: g.V().hasLabel(’case’).where(out( ’hasTelemetry’).has(’devicePlatform’, ’WINDOWS’)).count() →123,456.
> Answer: Windows has more cases than Mac.

Table 3: Example questions and Gremlin queries for different handlers. 

Judge Rubric. The LLM judge (§4.2) scores each run on five orthogonal dimensions, each on a 0–4 anchor scale, and reports a per-dimension rationale plus an aggregate. The anchor scale is shared across dimensions: 4 = great, fully meets the dimension with no caveat worth flagging; 3 =good, solidly meets, at most a cosmetic nit; 2 =OK, mostly meets with a defensible minor gap; 1 =poor, significant gap that affects the answer’s value; 

0 = failed, does not meet the dimension at all. The aggregate overall_score is the floor of the mean of the five scores; rounding down rather than to nearest errs on the conservative side. 1. Intent fidelity. Does the executed Gremlin cap-ture what the user actually asked? Looks at vertex labels, filter predicates (issue category/-subcategory, time window, status), traversal di-rection, and whether the right entities are an-chored. 4: traversal precisely matches the ques-tion, all filters justified. 3: matches with one inferred-but-reasonable filter. 2: right shape but a non-decisive filter is missing or slightly off. 1:wrong vertex type, wrong direction, or a filter inversion. 0: traversal answers a fundamentally different question. 2. Execution validity. Did the query run cleanly and return data of the expected shape? 4: ran first try, non-empty data of the expected shape. 

3: ran cleanly with a small retry/relaxation noted in the trace. 2: ran but result is partial / had to be retried successfully. 1: errored on first try and recovered with a degraded result, or returned data of the wrong shape that still answers the question. 0: errored without recovery, returned empty when data was clearly expected, or the shape is unusable. An “honest empty” answer that explains why the data is missing earns at most 2. 3. Grounding. Is the natural-language answer faithful to what the query actually returned? This is the hallucination check, independent of whether the query was correct. 4: every numeric, name, and claim is supported by the result. 3:supported with a single rounding or wording inconsistency. 2: one minor unsupported detail, headline still correct. 1: a key claim is unsup-ported or contradicts the result. 0: fabricates entities, counts, or relationships not in the data. 4. Completeness. Did the answer address every part of the question, including sub-asks (“com-pare X and Y”, “list and explain”, “rank by Z”)? 

4: every sub-ask answered with explicit com-parisons or explanations. 3: every sub-ask an-swered, one is briefer than ideal. 2: main ask answered, secondary sub-ask glossed. 1: only one of multiple sub-asks addressed. 0: answer is on a different topic or refuses without justifi-cation. For single-ask questions, the default is 4 unless something obvious is omitted. 5. Usefulness. Would an analyst actually use this answer to make a decision? Vague hedging is penalised, while honest fallbacks (e.g., “vector search unavailable, here is the text-search fall-back”) are rewarded because the analyst can act on them. 4: directly actionable, no follow-up needed. 3: actionable with a one-line caveat the answer surfaces. 2: useful with a meaning-ful caveat. 1: ambiguous; analyst would need to re-run the query. 0: misleading, evasive, or surfaces no actionable signal. A run is counted as pass when overall_score 

≥ 2. The judge is instructed to reply with a sin-gle JSON object containing the five per-dimension records, the aggregate, and the booleans, with no preamble or code fences. 

E Per-Dimension Breakdown 

Table 4 reports the mean per-dimension GPT-5.4 judge scores that compose the aggregate 

overall_score reported in §5, for each (system, backbone) cell over the 156-question evaluation set. The five dimensions follow the rubric defined in Appendix D: Intent = intent fidelity, Exec = ex-ecution validity, Ground = grounding, Compl =completeness, Use = usefulness. The aggregate 

overall_score reported in Table 1 is the floor of the per-question mean of these five dimensions, so the per-dimension means here will be slightly higher than the aggregate (mean before floor vs. floor before mean across questions). The pattern across systems is consistent. CoT and Few-shot CoT score reasonably on Intent (the model usually understands what is being asked) but collapse on every other dimension because, with no tools, queries either fail outright or return a de-generate shape. Few-shot CoT lifts Intent above CoT by 0.4–0.6 points on every backbone – the worked examples teach traversal patterns – but Ex-ecution stays under 1.0, confirming that single-call prompting cannot recover from the schema-shaped errors that tool feedback would catch. The SEGRA architecture pulls Execution , Grounding , and Com-pleteness into the 2–3 range, and adding the skill library lifts Usefulness (the most synthesis-heavy dimension) by a further 0.02 –0.30 points. 

E.1 Human-vs-Judge Agreement 

The main paper’s per-dimension breakdown re-ports GPT-5.4 judge scores. We additionally col-lected human annotations on the SEGRA-w/-skills + Medium cell to gauge how the automatic judge compares to expert evaluation. Two annotators in-dependently scored all 156 questions on the same 0–4 anchor scale as the LLM judge, but assigned a single overall score per question rather than per-dimension scores – so this section is restricted to overall-score agreement and does not extend the per-dimension table above. Annotators saw the question, generated Gremlin, executed result, and final answer, but not the judge score. 

Inter-annotator agreement. Before comparing humans against the judge, we measure how the two annotators agree with each other on the same 156 questions. Table 5 reports five complementary met-rics, since the 0–4 scale is ordinal: exact agreement (both annotators picked the same integer), within-1-point agreement (they differed by at most one bucket), Cohen’s quadratic-weighted κ (the stan-dard ordinal-agreement statistic, where ≥ 0.6 is conventionally read as “substantial”), Spearman’s 

ρ (rank correlation, robust to one annotator being uniformly harsher than the other), and mean ab-solute difference (concrete points-apart). Overall, the annotators agree exactly on 47 .4% of questions and within one point on 81 .4% , with a quadratic-weighted κ of 0.52 and a Spearman ρ of 0.47 –moderate agreement under standard interpretation, with the bulk of disagreements being one-bucket calls rather than wholesale reversals. The handler-level breakdown reveals two dis-tinct patterns. On HDIR , both annotators rate nearly every output as great ( A-mean 3.75 , B-mean 3.89 ,within-1 94 .4% ); the κ of 0.13 is misleadingly low because the score distribution has almost no variance for κ to credit. On HPLAN , agreement is moderate-to-substantial ( κ = 0 .56 , ρ = 0 .50 ,within-1 82% ) – the largest sub-sample ( n=100 )and the most representative of overall agreement. On HSIM , agreement is genuinely poor ( κ = 0 .06 ,exact 15% , MAD 1.45 ): Annotator A is systemati-cally harsh on similarity outputs (mean 2.45 ) while Annotator B rates almost all 20 similarity outputs Small Medium Large                                                                              

> System Intent Exec Ground Compl Use Intent Exec Ground Compl Use Intent Exec Ground Compl Use CoT 1.29 0.08 1.19 0.06 0.25 1.73 0.21 1.36 0.08 0.22 1.59 0.08 1.54 0.08 0.24 Few-shot CoT 1.91 0.64 0.94 0.42 0.32 2.17 0.88 1.12 0.36 0.22 2.08 0.99 1.05 0.36 0.22 SEGRA w/o S1.59 2.26 1.68 2.54 1.24 1.92 3.12 2.06 3.15 1.46 1.91 3.14 2.15 3.33 1.74
> SEGRA w/ S1.75 2.72 1.63 2.99 1.26 2.16 3.11 2.15 3.15 1.75 1.99 3.13 2.20 3.41 1.76

Table 4: Per-dimension mean GPT-5.4 judge scores (0–4) over the 156-question evaluation set, by system and backbone. Dimensions are defined in Appendix D. Bold marks the highest-scoring system per (backbone, dimen-sion); SEGRA w/ S attains the highest score on a majority of cells, with the most consistent gains on completeness 

and usefulness (which reward end-to-end synthesis rather than just running a query). Note the contrast on Intent :Few-shot CoT slightly exceeds SEGRA on this dimension because both reach a ceiling from prompt-level grounding, but its low Execution drags the aggregate down. 

Handler n Exact ≤ 1 pt κq ρ MAD 

HDIR 36 80.6% 94.4% 0.13 0.25 0.25 

HSIM 20 15.0% 55.0% 0.06 0.35 1.45 

HPLAN 100 42.0% 82.0% 0.56 0.50 0.81 All 156 47.4% 81.4% 0.52 0.47 0.76 

Table 5: Inter-annotator agreement on SEGRA w/ S,

Medium backbone. “Exact” is the percentage of ques-tions on which both annotators picked the same integer score; “ ≤ 1 pt” allows a one-bucket disagreement. κq is Cohen’s quadratic-weighted kappa, ρ is Spearman rank correlation, and MAD is the mean absolute difference between the two annotators’ integer scores. The HDIR 

κq is depressed by a ceiling effect (both annotators rate nearly all outputs ≥ 3). 

as great (mean 3.90 ).