Title: EComAgentBench: Benchmarking Shopping Agents on Long-Horizon Tasks with Distributed Hidden Intent

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.17698v1

Published Time: Wed, 17 Jun 2026 00:54:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# EComAgentBench: Benchmarking Shopping Agents on Long-Horizon Tasks with Distributed Hidden Intent 

Zeyao Du, Tong Li, Haibo Zhang *

Shopee 

{zeyao.du,litonglt,peter.wu}@shopee.com 

Abstract 

As LLM-based shopping agents enter produc-tion, existing benchmarks fail to capture how a shopper’s requirements arrive: stated implicitly in the query, recorded in a profile, or revealed only when the right question is asked. Bench-marks that expose full intent upfront and grade only the final choice can neither pose this long-horizon challenge nor explain which require-ment an agent missed. To address this gap, we introduce EComAgentBench, a benchmark of 662 tasks grounded in real Amazon products and reviews. Each task scatters these require-ments across a visible query, a tool-gated pro-file, and scripted clarification; an agent must uncover hidden intent, verify candidates against attributes and review evidence, and commit to a single product within 100 tool calls. More-over, typed, source-tagged rubrics grade every task, attributing each failure to a requirement and its source. Construction is automated yet reliable, with every answer fixed in code before any text is generated and every sample vali-dated. Our evaluation of seven models reveals that even the strongest attains only 57.1% over-all accuracy, and rubric satisfaction degrades from visible to hidden sources. Overall, we be-lieve EComAgentBench will serve as a repro-ducible foundation for moving shopping agents from single-query search toward dependable assistance over long horizons. 

1 Introduction 

E-commerce shopping agents are moving from single-query product lookup to assistants that serve a shopper over many tool-using steps. Selecting a model for deployment therefore requires a bench-mark that separates models, explains where each fails, and reflects how shopping requests actually arrive, while being constructed and graded reliably enough to trust the resulting ranking. Prior shop-ping and web-agent benchmarks established that  

> *Corresponding author.

realistic evaluation is a long-horizon interaction problem over tools and partial information, not single-shot question answering (Yao et al., 2022; Deng et al., 2023; Zhou et al., 2023; Yoran et al., 2024). We identify three weaknesses in how shopping agents are evaluated today, each motivating one of our contributions. (i) Coarse, non-diagnostic scoring: prior shopping benchmarks score an an-swer only by exact product match or by feature overlap with the target (Yao et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2026a). No such score can say which re-quirement of a many-step task was missed, nor where it came from: the query, the profile, or a follow-up question. (ii) Little hidden intent: real shoppers state some needs implicitly, keep others in their profile, and mention some only when asked. Most benchmarks, however, place all requirements in the opening query, leaving the long trajectory nothing new to discover; the few with personaliza-tion expose the profile directly or simulate the user. 

(iii) Unreliable construction: long-horizon tasks are costly to author and noisy to grade. Existing benchmarks each forgo at least one of validation, automation, or real products; many further simulate the user or leave the judge unconstrained, adding variance orthogonal to the capability under test. To address all three, we present EComAgent-Bench, a single-product shopping benchmark on a real Amazon Reviews 2023 catalog (Hou et al., 2024) that splits each shopper’s requirements across three sources: a visible query that states some needs only implicitly, a hidden persona read only via the get_user_profile tool, and hidden clarification obtained only by asking a question the 

ask_user tool recognizes. Because two sources sit behind tools, the full intent cannot be read in any single step; it must be assembled across the episode (Figure 1; worked example in Section 3). We grade each episode with checks we call rubrics ,each labeled by type and by source (query, persona, 

> arXiv:2606.17698v1 [cs.AI] 16 Jun 2026

or clarification), so a failed check identifies which requirement was missed and where. Construction is automated yet reliable: each answer is fixed in code before any text is generated, clarification is scripted rather than simulated, and every sample undergoes multi-stage validation. We organize the paper around three questions and answer each with evidence from seven repre-sentative models evaluated under a shared environ-ment and judge: • RQ1: Does the benchmark separate models and localize failures in long-horizon tasks by requirement and source? Overall accuracy spans 19.5–57.1%, and the typed, source-tagged rubrics pinpoint which requirements each model misses and where they originate. • RQ2: Does hidden, distributed intent con-struct a realistic long-horizon task? Splitting requirements across the query, the profile, and clarification mirrors how shoppers express in-tent, and is consistently harder for every model, isolating a capability that query-visible evalua-tion misses. • RQ3: Can long-horizon evaluation be trusted and scaled? Construction is automated yet val-idated over a real catalog, and the judge errs rarely: it rejects a correct answer at most once per model, and accepts no incorrect answer in an independent audit; the category-agnostic pipeline scales by sampling more products, not re-annotating. In short, EComAgentBench shows how to con-struct long-horizon shopping tasks (hidden, dis-tributed intent), diagnose their failures (typed, source-tagged rubrics), and keep both reproducible (automated, validated construction): a combination no prior shopping benchmark provides. 

2 Related Work 

E-commerce shopping benchmarks. Web-Shop (Yao et al., 2022) grounds agents in real shopping pages but focuses on browser interaction, not on recovering hidden requirements. Recent shopping benchmarks differ in both what intent they hide and how they are built . Shopping-Bench (Wang et al., 2026a) keeps intent essentially query-visible and auto-generates tasks without independent validation; ShopSimulator (Wang et al., 2026b) adds personalization through a simulated user but relies on costly manual annotation; DeepPlanning (Zhang et al., 2026) offers verifiable-constraint long-horizon planning, but on synthetic products rather than a real catalog. However, none reveals where a failed requirement came from, even when granting partial credit. Together these gaps motivate EComAgentBench: a task whose intent is split across three sources, two gated behind tools, so that recovering it spans a long horizon; typed, source-tagged rubrics that attribute each failure to a requirement and its source; and a pipeline that is at once automated, validated, and built on a real Amazon catalog (Table 1). 

Web-agent and interactive evaluation. 

Mind2Web (Deng et al., 2023), WebArena (Zhou et al., 2023), VisualWebArena (Koh et al., 2024), and AssistantBench (Yoran et al., 2024) showed that realistic agent evaluation should capture how an agent gathers information and uses its environ-ment, not just the final answer; EComAgentBench focuses this idea on shopping, where intent must be recovered from the query, the profile, and clarification. 

Evaluator design and rubric decomposition. 

VitaBench (Meituan LongCat Team, 2025) pio-neered rubric-based decomposition of complex agent trajectories; we extend this approach with rubrics that are typed and source-tagged . Work on LLM-as-judge supports model-based grading but cautions against unconstrained judge scor-ing (Zheng et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024; Chiang and Lee, 2023), motivating a design in which the judge’s targets are fixed in code and tied to typed rubrics rather than left to free-form judgment. 

3 Task and Environment 

We now formalize this task. EComAgentBench turns shopping from understanding a single query into recovering requirements split across three sources, two gated behind tools; the agent begins with a partial view of the user’s intent and must ac-quire the remainder through search, profile access, and clarification. Hiddenness enters on two inde-pendent axes: source , when a requirement lives be-hind a tool (persona, clarification), and expression ,when the visible query states a need only implicitly. Figure 1 walks through one task end-to-end, from the three sources through the agent’s tool use to source-tagged rubric scoring (full case in App. C). Capability ShoppingBench ShopSimulator DeepPlanning Ours                                     

> Explains failures (RQ1)
> Per-requirement (rubric) scoring c∼∼∼✓
> Shows which source failed ✗✗✗✓
> Realistic hidden intent (RQ2)
> Tool-gated (hidden) intent ✗∼✗✓
> Agent must ask for missing info ✗✓✗✓
> Reliable, automated build (RQ3)
> Real product catalog ✓✓✗✓
> Automated construction ✓✗✓✓
> Validated after building ✗✓✓✓✓supported; ∼partial; ✗not supported.
> cThe score breaks down to individual requirements; ∼= breaks down only to product-feature parts or task checkpoints. Benchmarks: ShoppingBench (Wang et al., 2026a), ShopSimulator (Wang et al., 2026b), DeepPlan-ning (Zhang et al., 2026); VitaBench (Meituan LongCat Team, 2025) is discussed as evaluator-design inspiration rather than a primary comparison target.

Table 1: EComAgentBench versus recent e-commerce shopping benchmarks, grouped by its three goals: explaining failures (RQ1), realistic hidden intent (RQ2), and a reliable, automated build (RQ3). EComAgentBench is the only one that meets all three; each prior benchmark already misses at least one capability in the reliability group (ShoppingBench has no task validation, ShopSimulator is hand-annotated, DeepPlanning uses synthetic products). 

Environment. The agent operates in an API sandbox rather than a browser. This separates the shopping-specific work (finding information and checking requirements) from web-page navi-gation, and enables deterministic replay with fixed tool behavior. The tool set contains 10 tools span-ning catalog search and inspection (search, filtering, product details, review evidence), user interaction (profile access, clarification), and decision support (lightweight calculation, final recommendation). Each run is capped at 100 tool steps (one call per step) and 10 clarification turns, and the agent must terminate by recommending exactly one product. Recovering the scattered intent requires sustained multi-step acquisition, making each episode a long-horizon trajectory. 

Rubrics and metrics. Evaluation uses typed rubrics rather than a single label. Each carries a type (e.g., attribute_match , numeric_range ,

review_opinion ) and a source tag (query, persona, clarification), with the six types detailed in Sec-tion 4. Our primary metric is accuracy: exact prod-uct match or full rubric satisfaction. We addition-ally report rubric satisfaction by source, finished rate, and tool-use statistics. This casts shopping evaluation as a joint test of retrieval, profile use, clarification, review verification, and selection. 

4 Benchmark Construction 

To populate this environment, we build EComA-gentBench from a real catalog of 3.7M products and 21.4M reviews derived from Amazon Re-views 2023 (Hou et al., 2024), concentrated in electronics-adjacent categories. The valid split con-tains 662 samples spanning 8 intents, from product search and rating quality to coupon budgeting and review-driven shopping; of 921 generated candi-dates, 71.9% survive final validation (intent defini-tions and per-intent statistics in App. B). 

Controlled pipeline (RQ3). Each sample is built by a seven-stage pipeline (Figure 2; details in App. D). The central design principle is that the correct answer is fixed before any text is generated .Once a rubric’s id, type, field, expected value, and source are set in code, later LLM calls only verbal-ize them and cannot alter the correctness criteria: the LLM controls surface realization, not the un-derlying requirements. Letting an LLM author the evaluation criteria would build its noise into the ground truth; locking them in code removes that variance at the source. 

Three-source split (RQ2). Extracted features are split into query-visible, persona-hidden, and clarification-hidden requirements. The valid split carries 6645 rubrics, averaging 10.04 per sample: 3993 from the query and 1326 each from persona and clarification. Each hidden requirement adds (a) Task: intent hidden in three sources   

> Query (visible) — implicit cues:

▶ Connector = micro-USB 

▶ Mounting = Tabletop 

▶ review: “standing up or lying down”    

> Persona (hidden ·get_user_profile ):

▶ Color = Black 

▶ Device = Smartphones    

> Clarification (hidden ·ask_user ):

▶ avg_rating ≥ 3.5 

▶ Connectivity = USB       

> (b) How the agent interacts
> Shopper
> Agent
> Shop sandbox
> ask_user / reply
> action / observation
> The agent must actively fetch the profile and ask the shopper. API sandbox: 10 tools, ≤100 steps, one product.
> (c) Source-tagged typed-rubric scoring
> recommended product: B07DJB5F29
> Query (8/8):

▶ attribute_match micro-USB ✓

▶ entity_match Wireless Charger ✓

▶ review_opinion standing or lying ✓ 

> Persona (2/2):

▶ attribute_match Color=Black ✓ 

> Clarification (2/2):

▶ numeric_range rating ≥3.5 ✓

▶ attribute_match USB ✓                         

> Correct = exact product match or all rubrics sat-isfied.
> Worked example: gpt-5.4 recovers the hidden intent, then recommends one product (steps run top to bottom; 32 tool calls in all)
> Step ↓Agent Environment / User
> 1get_user_profile returns Color=Black ,Device=Smartphones
> 2–6 ask_user ×5(5th triggers the slot) User: “at least 3.5 stars” (unlocks avg_rating ≥3.5 )
> 7–11 search_products ,get_product_details ,
> get_product_review_stats B07DJB5F29 : micro-USB, Tabletop, Black, USB; rating 3.7 12–29 get_review_content (mine reviews; rule out alternatives) review: “charges standing up or lying down; angle adjustable” 30–32 search_products , then recommend_product (B07DJB5F29 )every rubric satisfied ⇒correct

Figure 1: EComAgentBench on one task (wireless charger). Top: (a) the full requirement is split across three sources: a visible query with implicit cues, a hidden persona behind get_user_profile , and hidden clarification behind 

ask_user ; (b) the agent interacts with the shopper and a sandboxed shop to recover them; (c) the recommended product is graded against typed rubrics tagged by source (a case is correct on exact product match or full rubric satisfaction). Bottom: an abridged trajectory of the recovery. Source colors (query in blue, persona in orange, clarification in green) carry across panels. 

Real Amazon catalog 

Sample & extract features 

Partition into three sources 

Compile typed rubrics 

Realize language 

Layered validation Valid split 

semantics locked before language 

Figure 2: Construction pipeline. EComAgentBench starts from a real product catalog, splits requirements across query, persona, and clarification, fixes the typed, source-tagged rubrics before any text is written, and validates every sample before it enters the valid split. 

a sub-goal reachable only through tools, length-ening the horizon the agent must cover. Persona constraints are stated preferences kept in a ded-icated profile field, separated from the unscored profile context to prevent leakage, and intended to be consulted rather than inferred. 

Typed, source-tagged rubrics. Each rubric car-ries a type and a source tag (Table 2). The type shows which kind of requirement failed (identi-fication, attribute, numeric, exclusion, budget, or review judgment); the source shows whether the requirement was visible or hidden. Because each expected value is fixed in code, the judge verifies a specific target rather than grading freely, and there-fore cannot drift. 

Validation by design. Validation is part of how the benchmark is defined, not a post-hoc filtering step. We lock each rubric before any text is gener-ated. Automated checks keep each requirement on its assigned source and prevent leakage: a hidden value may not appear verbatim in the query. A gen-eration check confirms that the query, persona, and clarification together support their rubrics and that the target product satisfies all of them. Clarification is deterministic: each slot has a list of trigger key-words and a fixed answer, so a missed clarification is attributable to the agent rather than to user-side stochasticity. App. D gives validation examples and the exact-match cross-check. Type Checks (example)         

> attribute_match exact attribute value ( Color =Black)
> numeric_range numeric bound (average_rating ≥3.5)
> entity_match identity phrase in title (“Wireless Charger”)
> negative_attribute an excluded value (e.g., not waterproof)
> budget_match post-voucher total within budget
> review_opinion opinion grounded in reviews (“standing up or lying down”)
> Table 2: The six rubric types in EComAgentBench. Each rubric also carries a source tag (query / persona / clarification).

5 Experiments 

Protocol. All results are measured on the 662 valid samples. The prediction phase uses the tool environment of Section 3 (at most 100 tool steps and 10 clarification turns); the evaluation phase uses gemini-3.1-pro-preview as the unified judge. A case is correct if the agent recommends the ex-act target product or satisfies every rubric. This dual-path definition yields a user-facing notion of correctness and enables cross-checking the rubric score. 

Reliability signals. Three design choices keep grading reliable: each rubric has a fixed expected value, clarification is deterministic rather than LLM-simulated, and correctness is tracked along both the exact-match and the rubric path. We then audit the judge in both directions (App. D.4). The judge rejects a correct, exact-target recommenda-tion at most once per model. In the other direction, for one model, we re-examined every case in which the judge accepted a non-target product as correct (161 rubrics) and identified no genuine errors. The benchmark is therefore hard because of the task, not because the judge is noisy. 

Overall performance. Table 3 reports headline results: overall accuracy spans 19.5–57.1% un-der a shared environment and judge. This wide spread indicates that EComAgentBench separates models rather than saturating near the ceiling. 

claude-opus-4-6 leads on accuracy, gpt-5.4 on rubric satisfaction, and kimi-k2.6 nearly matches 

gpt-5.4 with a deeper, ask-late style; the differ-ences are behavioral as well as numerical. 

Hidden intent is harder than visible intent (RQ2). Table 4 breaks rubric satisfaction down by source. For every model, query-visible con-straints are easier than persona and clarification: 

gpt-5.4 reaches 88.1% on query but only 69.8% and 70.9% on persona and clarification. Almost every model reads the profile, so the deficit lies in using hidden information rather than retrieving it: a skill query-visible benchmarks cannot measure. 

Implicit requirements drive difficulty. The number of requirements stated only implicitly in the query predicts difficulty better than the raw number of requirements (Figure 3; full buckets in App. B). Going from 0–1 such requirements to 3+ nearly halves the seven-model average accuracy (51 .8% → 27 .2% ), whereas adding explicitly stated requirements does not. 

Two interaction styles emerge, with comple-mentary failure modes. Trajectories reveal two strategies (App. B, Table 8). Deep-search, ask-late models (Opus, Kimi, MiniMax) run 15–17 searches and place their first ask_user past the halfway point, asking the user in only 10–20% of tasks; shallow-search, ask-early models (the GPT family) ask almost immediately ( gpt-5.4 in every task, at position 0.06). The two styles trade off: deep searchers verify more but exhaust the 100-step budget more often (Opus finishes only 84.6%), while early-askers almost always finish yet fare no better on hidden requirements. 

Failures concentrate on review evidence (RQ1). 

Pooling the 12,467 failed rubrics localizes where agents fail. By volume, 81.5% are 

attribute_match (the most common type), but by rate review_opinion has the lowest satisfaction of any type (33.7–67.4%): extracting and aggre-gating evidence from unstructured reviews, rather than matching structured attributes, is the hard-est sub-skill. Per-intent accuracy (App. B) cor-roborates this picture: product search, rating qual-ity, and coupon budgeting are easiest; knowledge-reasoning, review-driven, and feature-combination tasks are among the hardest. 

6 Discussion 

Shopping as a stress test for long-horizon agency. 

Shopping assistants highlight a central weakness of current agent models: the difficulty is not only find-ing relevant products, but sustaining a coherent de-cision process over many steps. EComAgentBench Model Acc. Rubric Sat. Finish Avg Calls Median Opus-4.6 57.1 76.6 84.6 33.9 16.0 GPT-5.4 47.0 81.0 99.4 25.1 20.0 Kimi K2.6 46.4 73.4 88.7 38.2 28.0 GPT-5 39.6 76.1 97.7 24.4 15.0 MiniMax M2.7 36.6 73.5 95.6 31.3 21.0 GPT-5 mini 31.6 72.7 100.0 15.5 12.5 Qwen3-30B-A3B 19.5 59.0 100.0 18.3 16.0 Short names follow Table 5. Accuracy is defined as exact product match or full rubric satisfaction. 

Table 3: Main results on the 662 valid EComAgentBench samples.                         

> Model Query Persona Clar. Opus-4.6 80.6 72.8 68.6 GPT-5.4 88.1 69.8 70.9 Kimi K2.6 79.9 63.2 64.1 GPT-5 85.7 58.6 64.9 MiniMax M2.7 83.5 57.3 59.9 GPT-5 mini 82.1 56.6 60.2 Qwen3-30B-A3B 68.8 43.1 45.4

Table 4: By-source rubric satisfaction (%). Query con-straints are consistently easier than persona and clarifi-cation constraints. 

turns this everyday scenario into a long-horizon benchmark by allowing up to 100 tool calls for intent acquisition, evidence verification, and final commitment. The resulting failures are revealing: models often retrieve useful profile information without incorporating it into their decisions; ex-haustive search strategies consume the step budget without converging; early-commitment strategies choose products before verification; and review ev-idence remains difficult because it must be accumu-lated and reasoned over across the trajectory. The sharp performance drop from 51 .8% → 27 .2% as implicit requirements accumulate suggests that cur-rent agents are better at local tool use than at global trajectory-level reasoning. Shopping is thus not a narrow e-commerce task but a practical proxy for long-horizon agent evaluation (Zhang et al., 2026). 

From product matching to requirement rea-soning. EComAgentBench is challenging not be-cause it artificially enlarges the search space, but be-cause it captures a core difficulty of real shopping agents: user requirements are latent, distributed, and evidence-dependent. Some requirements are stated explicitly in the query, others must be re-trieved from the profile or elicited through dialogue, many are expressed as implicit clues rather than literal product attributes, and some can only be ver-ified through review evidence. Solving the task therefore requires an agent to recover hidden in-tent, maintain it over a long tool-use trajectory, and connect each requirement to the right form of evi-dence before committing. Our by-source, difficulty, and failure analyses in Section 5 indicate that the observed performance gaps track these intended sources of complexity while grader noise is mini-mal: no model has more than one correct answer falsely rejected by the judge. 

Systematic error patterns. The failure modes above are systematic rather than anecdotal. Per-requirement failure rates rise monotonically with how deeply a requirement is hidden, roughly dou-bling from query (12–31%) to persona (27–57%) and clarification (29–55%). Failures concentrate on evidence-bearing checks, with review_opinion 

rubrics satisfied least often among the six types. The patterns persist across interaction styles: deep searchers more often exhaust the step budget, while early-committing models almost always finish yet are no better at satisfying hidden requirements. The remaining headroom thus lies in trajectory-level capabilities (proactive information acquisition, sus-tained constraint integration, calibrated stopping) rather than in stronger single-step execution. 

7 Conclusion 

We recast e-commerce shopping as a long-horizon agent task and present EComAgentBench to evaluate it: within 100 tool calls, an agent must recover requirements distributed across a query, a tool-gated profile, and scripted clarification, verify them against catalog and review evidence, and commit to a single product. Hidden, distributed intent constructs the long horizon; typed, source-tagged rubrics tie each failure to a requirement and its source; and an automated yet validated pipeline with an audited judge keeps the evaluation reproducible. Across seven models, overall accuracy ranges from 19.5% to 57.1%, and rubric satisfaction degrades from visible to hidden re-quirements: integrating scattered intent over a long trajectory remains an open challenge. We believe EComAgentBench provides a demanding testbed and concrete diagnostics for building deployable shopping agents. We release the benchmark data together with the full dataset-construction, prediction, and evaluation harness at https: //github.com/Morizeyao/EComAgentBench_ .

Limitations 

EComAgentBench is deliberately scoped as a re-producible diagnostic benchmark, which implies several limitations. First, the released split draws on a bounded slice of Amazon Reviews 2023 (Hou et al., 2024): products concentrate in electronics-adjacent categories, and all tasks are in English on a single marketplace; since the construction pipeline is category-agnostic, broadening coverage is left to future releases. Second, every task ends in one rec-ommended product, leaving multi-item carts, com-parison dialogues, and post-purchase support to fu-ture work. Third, the user side is fully scripted for reproducibility: personas are synthetic stated pref-erences (possible generation biases are discussed in the Ethics Statement) and clarification is deter-ministic, trading some naturalness for failures at-tributable to the agent; inferring latent preferences from behavioral signals is a harder, complementary setting we leave to future work. Finally, scoring relies on an LLM judge with targets fixed in code. Audited in both directions, the judge falsely rejects at most one correct recom-mendation per model and shows no confirmed false acceptance in a full one-model re-check (App. D.4); residual grader noise nevertheless cannot be fully excluded. 

Ethics Statement 

Data and licensing. The product catalog is con-structed from Amazon Reviews 2023 (Hou et al., 2024), a publicly released research dataset. We use product metadata and review text strictly for research evaluation, consistent with the dataset’s research-use terms. We redistribute no raw user content beyond what is necessary to reproduce the benchmark, and we point to the original source rather than rehosting the underlying corpus. 

No personally identifiable information. The user personas in EComAgentBench are synthet-ically generated and do not correspond to real in-dividuals. The benchmark does not attempt to re-identify any real user, and persona fields are pro-duced to support hidden-intent evaluation rather than to model any specific person. This is a deliber-ate ethical advantage over evaluations built on real user behavioral logs. 

Bias and representativeness. Because personas are model-generated, they may inherit biases of the generating model, such as skewed demographic, occupational, or lifestyle distributions. In addition, the released catalog is concentrated in electronics-adjacent categories and therefore does not represent all shoppers or product domains. Results should be read as diagnostic signals about hidden-intent acquisition rather than as estimates of real-world shopping success across the full population. These boundaries are stated in the Limitations. 

Evaluated models. We evaluate publicly avail-able commercial and open-weight language models through their respective APIs, in accordance with their terms of use, and report only aggregate evalu-ation metrics. 

References             

> Cheng-Han Chiang and Hung-yi Lee. 2023. Can large language models be an alternative to human evalua-tions? In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Samuel Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. 2023. Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Datasets and Benchmarks Track .Yupeng Hou, Jiacheng Li, Xiangjun Fu, Zhankui He, An Yan, Xiusi Chen, and Julian McAuley. 2024. Bridging language and items for retrieval and rec-ommendation: Benchmarking LLMs as semantic en-coders. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.03952 .Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram Duvvur, Ming Chong Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham Neubig, Shuyan Zhou, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried. 2024. Visualwebarena: Evaluating multimodal agents on realistic visual web tasks. In
> Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics .Meituan LongCat Team. 2025. Vitabench: Bench-marking llm agents with versatile interactive tasks in real-world applications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.26490 .Jiangyuan Wang, Kejun Xiao, Qi Sun, Huaipeng Zhao, Tao Luo, Jian Dong Zhang, and Xiaoyi Zeng. 2026a.

Shoppingbench: A real-world intent-grounded shop-ping benchmark for llm-based agents. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,40(39):33521–33529. Pei Wang, Yanan Wu, Xiaoshuai Song, Weixun Wang, Gengru Chen, and 1 others. 2026b. Shopsimulator: Evaluating and exploring rl-driven llm agent for shop-ping assistants. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.18225 .Peiyi Wang, Lei Li, Liang Chen, Zefan Cai, Dawei Zhu, Binghuai Lin, Yunbo Cao, Lingpeng Kong, Qi Liu, Tianyu Liu, and Zhifang Sui. 2024. Large language models are not fair evaluators. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics .Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik R. Narasimhan. 2022. Webshop: Towards scalable real-world web interaction with grounded language agents. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-tems .Ori Yoran, Samuel Joseph Amouyal, Chaitanya Malaviya, Ben Bogin, Ofir Press, and Jonathan Be-rant. 2024. Assistantbench: Can web agents solve realistic and time-consuming tasks? arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.15711 .Yinger Zhang, Shutong Jiang, Renhao Li, Jianhong Tu, Yang Su, Lianghao Deng, Xudong Guo, Chenxu Lv, and Junyang Lin. 2026. DeepPlanning: Benchmark-ing long-horizon agentic planning with verifiable con-straints. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.18137 .Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric P. Xing, Hao Zhang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Judging LLM-as-a-judge with MT-bench and chatbot arena. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-tems, Datasets and Benchmarks Track .Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Gra-ham Neubig. 2023. Webarena: A realistic web en-vironment for building autonomous agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.13854 .Query Persona Clarif.     

> 0
> 20
> 40
> 60
> 80
> 100
> Rubric satisfaction (%)  81
> 60 62
> (a) Hidden sources are harder
> low mid high
> Constraint-density bucket
> 20
> 30
> 40
> 50
> 60
> Accuracy (%)  52
> 36
> 27
> 35
> 44 43
> (b) Implicit density drives difficulty
> implicit count
> rubric count

Figure 3: (a) Hidden sources (persona, clarification) stay harder than query-visible constraints. (b) The number of implicitly stated query requirements is a stronger difficulty driver than raw rubric count. 

A Model and Inference Configuration 

We evaluate seven representative mod-els: gpt-5.4 , gpt-5 , gpt-5-mini ,

claude-opus-4-6 , moonshotai/kimi-k2.6 ,

minimax/minimax-m2.7 , and 

qwen3-30b-a3b-instruct-2507 . Table 5summarizes the model-specific inference settings used in evaluation, with shared defaults applied across runs. 

B Additional Diagnostics 

This appendix reports the core benchmark statis-tics (Table 6) and complements Section 5 with the full difficulty-bucket breakdown, the interaction-behavior table and scatter, and the per-intent accu-racy matrix. Each intent category stresses a different way of expressing requirements: product search states attributes explicitly; knowledge reasoning para-phrases them as world-knowledge clues; use-case scenario implies them through a concrete situation; 

feature combination weaves several constraints into 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6    

> First ask_user call (0=start, 1=end)
> 20
> 30
> 40
> 50
> 60
> Accuracy (%)
> Opus-4.6
> GPT-5.4 Kimi K2.6
> GPT-5
> MiniMax M2.7
> GPT-5 mini
> Qwen3-30B early-ask late-ask
> Marker size search depth

Figure 4: Interaction style versus accuracy. Early-ask models (GPT family) cluster on the left; late-ask, deep-search models (Opus, Kimi, MiniMax) on the right. Marker size encodes search depth. No single style dominates—the best accuracy (Opus) pairs deep search with late clarification. 

one request; negative constraint excludes specific attribute values; rating quality sets thresholds on ratings or review counts; coupon budget constrains the post-voucher total; and review-driven asks for experiences that must be verified in review text. The ordering is broadly consistent across models: product search, rating quality, and coupon budget-ing are easiest on average, while knowledge reason-ing, review-driven shopping, and feature combina-tion are among the hardest—mirroring the review-evidence and multi-constraint difficulties identified in the main text. 

C Full Benchmark Example 

This appendix presents a representative benchmark case from the review_driven intent, together with a correct gpt-5.4 trajectory. We choose this case because it uses multiple information sources and multiple tools in a non-trivial way: the success-ful agent calls the profile tool, performs several clarification attempts, retrieves candidate products, checks product details, verifies review statistics, mines review evidence, and only then terminates. Catalog attribute values, including noisy ones such as the Operating System value “2-COIN” below, are preserved verbatim in the task text so that every rubric remains mechanically checkable against the catalog. 

C.1 Sample Definition User query 

I’m looking for a Wireless Charger with reviews mentioning that it charges phone standing up or Model Provider Reasoning GPT-5.4 OpenAI medium reasoning GPT-5 OpenAI medium reasoning GPT-5 mini OpenAI medium reasoning Opus-4.6 Anthropic provider default Kimi K2.6 OpenRouter thinking budget 2048 MiniMax M2.7 OpenRouter thinking budget 2048 Qwen3-30B-A3B OpenRouter not available Shared defaults: temperature=1.0 and max_tool_steps=100 (at most 10 clarification turns). Model mapping: Qwen3-30B-A3B = qwen3-30b-a3b-instruct-2507 (the instruction-tuned MoE with 30B total / 3B active parameters). 

Table 5: Per-model inference settings used during the prediction phase. 

Statistic Value Catalog products 3,721,595 Catalog reviews 21,351,983 Total generated samples 921 Valid benchmark sam-ples 662 Generation pass rate 71.9% Intents 8Tools 10 Rubrics 6645 Rubric types 6Average rubrics / valid sample 10.04 Rubric source split query 60.1%, persona 19.9%, clar-ification 19.9% 

Table 6: Core statistics of the current EComAgentBench benchmark, computed from the current benchmark re-lease. 

lying down and reviews stating the angle can be adjusted for convenience. It needs to be compat-ible with a Google LG Nexus4 on the 2-COIN operating system, include exactly the specs desk-top charger, Phone Stand, fast charging, wireless charging, foldable, use the older one-way trape-zoidal cord connector, and be made to rest flat on a desk rather than mounting to a wall. 

User persona 

{"user_id": "U_40684", "demographics": { "gender": "Male", "age_range": "25-34", "location": "Chicago, IL", "occupation": "Logistics Coordinator", "education_level": "Bachelor 's Degree" }, "lifestyle": { "hobbies": ["Cooking", "Bouldering", " Playing guitar"], "daily_routine": "Wakes up early to hit the climbing gym before taking the train to the office.", "fitness_level": "Active", "dietary_preference": "Omnivore", "commute_method": "Public Transit", "pets": "One cat" }, 

Bucket Count 7-model Avg. Acc. gpt-5.4 Rubrics 8–9 288 34.8 43.1 Rubrics 10 174 43.5 49.4 Rubrics 11+ 200 43.4 50.5 Implicit 0–1 215 51.8 59.1 Implicit 2 335 36.1 44.5 Implicit 3+ 112 27.2 31.2 Has review_opinion 95 36.1 44.2 Has budget_match 33 45.9 60.6 

Table 7: Difficulty buckets from the EComAgentBench summaries. The number of implicitly stated query re-quirements is a much stronger difficulty driver than the raw rubric count. 

Model Search Detail Rev. Ask 1st-ask Finish Opus-4.6 16.8 7.7 4.0 0.3 0.50 84.6 GPT-5.4 7.1 6.6 4.2 3.8 0.06 99.4 Kimi K2.6 14.6 10.4 7.1 0.5 0.51 88.7 GPT-5 7.6 5.9 4.6 2.6 0.18 97.7 MiniMax M2.7 15.3 7.5 2.1 1.4 0.50 95.6 GPT-5 mini 4.6 3.2 1.7 3.1 0.27 100.0 Qwen3-30B-A3B 6.8 3.6 1.3 2.0 0.42 100.0 

Table 8: Interaction behavior mined from trajectories: mean calls to key tools, the relative position of the first 

ask_user (0=start, 1=end), and the finish rate. Two styles emerge—deep-search/late-ask (Opus, Kimi, Min-iMax) versus shallow-search/early-ask (GPT family). 

"shopping_habits": { "payment_method": "Credit Card", "shopping_frequency": "Bi-weekly", "preferred_device": "Laptop", "preferred_platform": "Website", "return_frequency": "Rarely" }, "product_requirements": { "device_compatibility": "Smartphones", "color_preference": "Black" }}

The product_requirements block holds the stated preferences used as persona-source rubrics (here device_compatibility and Model Prod. Know. Rating Feat. Neg. Use-case Coupon Review Opus-4.6 65.1 46.2 67.5 60.6 47.4 54.8 63.6 55.8 GPT-5.4 51.8 43.4 60.0 39.4 36.8 48.1 60.6 44.2 Kimi K2.6 51.8 38.7 56.2 43.3 42.1 45.2 57.6 45.3 GPT-5 43.4 34.9 56.2 33.7 35.1 40.4 42.4 34.7 MiniMax M2.7 49.4 34.0 42.5 30.8 40.4 31.7 42.4 30.5 GPT-5 mini 42.2 28.3 40.0 27.9 24.6 30.8 33.3 27.4 Qwen3-30B-A3B 25.3 17.9 20.0 19.2 21.1 19.2 21.2 14.7 

Table 9: Per-intent accuracy (%) for all seven models on the 662 valid samples. Sample counts: product search 83, knowledge reasoning 106, rating quality 80, feature combination 104, negative constraint 57, use-case scenario 104, coupon budget 33, review-driven 95. 

color_preference ); the remaining fields are benign, unscored profile context (cf. the persona safety whitelist in App. D). 

Clarification script 

{"clarification_slots": [ {"slot_id": "cl_1", "linked_rubric_ids": ["r10"], "hidden_info": "Requires a minimum average rating of 3.5 stars.", "trigger_keywords": [ "rating", "reviews", "stars", "average rating", "score", "feedback", "rated" ], "user_response": "I want something with pretty good feedback, so it should have an average rating of at least 3.5 stars.", "revealed": false }, {"slot_id": "cl_2", "linked_rubric_ids": ["r11"], "hidden_info": "Requires USB connectivity technology.", "trigger_keywords": [ "connectivity", "connectivity technology", "connection", "plug", " interface", "port", "cable" ], "user_response": "It definitely needs to have USB connectivity so I can plug it into my existing adapters easily.", "revealed": false }], "default_response": "Hmm, I 'm not sure about that. Could you ask me about something more specific? Like what features or specs I'm looking for?", "max_clarification_turns": 10 }

C.2 Raw Rubrics 

[{"id": "r1", "type": "review_opinion", "field": "review", "expected_value": "charges phone standing up or lying down", "description": "charges phone standing up or lying down", "query_surface": "charges phone standing up or lying down", "info_source": "query" }, {"id": "r2", "type": "review_opinion", "field": "review", "expected_value": "angle can be adjusted for convenience", "description": "angle can be adjusted for convenience", "query_surface": "angle can be adjusted for convenience", "info_source": "query" }, {"id": "r3", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Compatible Phone Models", "expected_value": "Google LG Nexus4", "description": "Google LG Nexus4", "query_surface": "Google LG Nexus4", "info_source": "query" }, {"id": "r4", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Operating System", "expected_value": "2-COIN", "description": "2-COIN", "query_surface": "2-COIN", "info_source": "query" }, {"id": "r5", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Mounting Type", "expected_value": "Tabletop Mount", "description": "made to rest flat on a desk rather than mounting to a wall", "query_surface": "made to rest flat on a desk rather than mounting to a wall", "info_source": "query" }, {"id": "r6", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Connector Type", "expected_value": "micro usb", "description": "older one-way trapezoidal cord connector", "query_surface": "older one-way trapezoidal cord connector", "info_source": "query" }, {"id": "r7", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Special Feature", "expected_value": "desktop charger, Phone Stand, fast charging, wireless charging, foldable", "description": "desktop charger, Phone Stand, fast charging, wireless charging, foldable", "query_surface": "desktop charger, Phone Stand, fast charging, wireless charging, foldable", "info_source": "query" }, {"id": "r8", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Compatible Devices", "expected_value": "Smartphones", "info_source": "persona" }, {"id": "r9", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Color", "expected_value": "Black", "info_source": "persona" }, {"id": "r10", "type": "numeric_range", "field": "average_rating", "expected_value": {"min": 3.5}, "info_source": "clarification" }, {"id": "r11", "type": "attribute_match", "field": "details.Connectivity Technology", "expected_value": "USB", "info_source": "clarification" }, {"id": "r12", "type": "entity_match", "field": "title", "expected_value": "Wireless Charger", "description": "Wireless Charger", "query_surface": "Wireless Charger", "canonical_entity": "Wireless Charger", "title_span": "Wireless Charger", "info_source": "query" }]

C.3 Prediction Prompt 

The prediction run uses the following system prompt for the shopping agent. 

> You are a personal shopping assistant with access to a product catalog and the shopper 's profile. Your job is to find the single product that best matches everything this shopper needs. Their full requirements come from three sources that you must consult: 1. The shopping query they just sent you. 2. Their saved user profile. 3. Their answers to your follow-up questions - use ask_user to probe for any remaining unknowns properties. Before every tool call, write a Thought block in your response: Thought: - Observation: what I learned from the previous tool result (skip on the first turn) - Reasoning: how this narrows down or changes my strategy - Plan: which tool I will call next and why Rules: - One tool call per step. - Recommend exactly one product by calling recommend_product. Do not answer in plain text. - You have a limited of 100 steps. If you tried hard and are very near step limit, try to make a best guess. - All three information sources contain parts of requirements for the final product. - If search results do not match, try to broaden your search. Consider that the catalog uses specific attribute terms that may differ from the shopper 's phrasing. - This is a strict evaluation. The recommended product must satisfy EVERY requirement - missing even one attribute means the case is judged as completely wrong. Be thorough.

C.4 Abridged Correct Trajectory 

The successful gpt-5.4 run makes 32 tool calls in total, including 5 clarification attempts. Table 10 presents an abridged but faithful trajectory. 

C.5 Why the Prediction Is Correct 

The evaluation file marks this trajectory as an exact product match with zero failed rubrics. The sup-port is distributed across both structured details and review evidence: • Review evidence : the judge finds review support for both required opinions, namely charging while standing up or lying down and adjustable-angle convenience. • Query-source details : the product explic-itly matches Google LG Nexus4 , 2-COIN ,

Tabletop Mount , micro usb , and the exact special-feature string. • Persona-source details : the product matches 

Compatible Devices = Smartphones and 

Color = Black .• Clarification-source details : the product has average rating 3.7 and connectivity technol-ogy USB .This case is useful because it demonstrates both the benchmark’s difficulty and its intended solu-tion pattern: the agent must combine hidden per-sona information, at least one successful clarifica-tion, structured attribute verification, and review evidence retrieval before terminating. Step Tool Summary 1

get_user_ profile The agent starts by retrieving hidden profile constraints, recovering Compatible Devices = Smartphones and Color = Black .2 ask_user Asks whether the “older trapezoidal connector” means Micro USB; no slot is triggered. 3 ask_user Asks whether the charger should use Micro USB or USB-C; no slot is triggered. 4 ask_user Asks whether black is mandatory or only preferred; no slot is triggered. 5 ask_user Asks whether the user wants a stand rather than a flat charging pad; no slot is triggered. 6 ask_user Asks whether reviews must say the charger works standing up or lying down; this triggers the rating slot and reveals the hidden clarification requirement average_rating >= 3.5 .7

search_ products Searches for “wireless charger stand foldable fast charging” to obtain initial candidate products. 8–10 

get_product_ details Inspects multiple candidates. The key turning point is product B07DJB5F29 , which matches 2-COIN , micro usb , Google LG Nexus4 , Black , Tabletop Mount , and the exact special-feature string. 11 

get_product_ review_stats Verifies that B07DJB5F29 has average rating 3.7, satisfying the clarification threshold. 12–16 

get_review_ content Searches reviews using broad and narrow review phrases. Several searches return no matches, so the agent revises its review-query phrasing. 17–21 

get_product_ details / search_ products Briefly checks alternative candidates to avoid premature commitment. These alternatives fail critical structural constraints such as connector type or compatibility coverage. 22–29 

get_review_ content Returns to B07DJB5F29 and mines reviews with shorter keywords such as stand , pad ,

positions , and vertically . The retrieved review text mentions multiple position-s/orientations, an adjustable stand, and the phone sitting vertically. 30–31 

search_ products Performs two last broad searches to rule out a better structural match. No stronger candidate appears. 32 

recommend_ product Recommends B07DJB5F29 with reasoning that cites the exact structured matches and the review-backed evidence for adjustable upright use. 

Table 10: Abridged correct trajectory for a representative review-driven sample under gpt-5.4. 

D Validation and Stability Examples 

This appendix complements the main text by mak-ing the benchmark’s stabilization logic more con-crete. 

D.1 Locking the Correct Answer 

We fix what each rubric checks before any text is generated. Each rubric already has a fixed set of fields: • id 

• type 

• field 

• expected_value 

• info_source 

Later steps can phrase these requirements in natural language, but cannot change what counts as correct. 

D.2 Automated Checks Preventing query leaks. The query may contain implicit clues, but hidden persona and clarification values must not appear directly in the query. Sam-ples that break this rule are rejected before entering the valid split. 

Persona safety whitelist. Persona generation separates product-relevant requirements from be-nign noise. Noise fields are restricted to safe loca-tions such as demographics, lifestyle, and shopping habits. This reduces accidental insertion of scored information into irrelevant fields. 

Clarification completeness. Every clarification rubric must have a clarification slot with trigger keywords and a fixed answer. If any clarification rubric lacks a slot, or a slot lacks its keywords or answer, the sample fails validation. D.3 Semantic Check 

After the automated checks pass, a generation-time check confirms that: • each information source supports the rubrics assigned to it, • hidden values are not accidentally exposed in the wrong source, • the target product satisfies the final rubric set as a whole. This second layer is necessary because each part being individually valid does not guarantee they work together. 

D.4 LLM-Judge Stability: Errors in Both Directions 

The dual-path correctness definition—exact prod-uct match or full rubric satisfaction—lets us check judge error in both directions, because an exact match is correct without needing the judge. 

False negatives (judge rejects a correct answer). 

judge_misjudged_count counts cases where the agent recovered the exact target product (hence nec-essarily correct) yet the judge scored some rubric as unsatisfied. Across the seven models it never exceeds 1: • claude-opus-4-6: 1 gpt-5.4: 0moonshotai/kimi-k2.6: 1 • gpt-5: 1 minimax/minimax-m2.7: 1 gpt-5-mini: 0 qwen3-30b-a3b-instruct-2507: 0 The judge thus almost never penalizes a verifiably correct recommendation. 

False positives (judge accepts an incorrect an-swer). The only correct cases that rely on the judge rather than on exact recovery are non-exact-but-correct : the agent recommended a product other than the target, yet the judge marked all rubrics satisfied. Such cases are few—3–6% of each model’s correct cases (4.5% pooled, 83 of 1838)—which already upper-bounds how much judge leniency could inflate accuracy. To test whether they are genuine false positives or valid equivalent products, we independently re-verified every judge-satisfied rubric of all 17 such cases for 

gpt-5.4 (161 rubrics) against the predicted prod-uct’s true attributes and reviews from the product catalog, followed by manual confirmation. None were genuine false positives : every predicted prod-uct truly satisfies all of its rubrics and is a valid al-ternative to the target. In four rubrics the matched catalog field was itself noisy or mislabeled—e.g., a Canon DSLR whose Form Factor field reads “Compact”—and the judge correctly relied on sub-stantive evidence (title, material, connectivity); these are catalog-data artifacts, not judge errors. 

Takeaway. Both error directions are small, and on the audited model the judge also handles noisy catalog fields well: it rarely rejects correct answers (≤ 1 false negative per model) and accepts no incor-rect ones among the non-exact-correct cases (zero false positives). We therefore conclude the bench-mark is hard because of its design, not because the judge is noisy—while not claiming perfect reliabil-ity.