Title: EvoBrowseComp: Benchmarking Search Agents on Evolving Knowledge

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.13120v1

Published Time: Fri, 12 Jun 2026 00:45:15 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
## EvoBrowseComp: Benchmarking Search Agents on Evolving Knowledge 

Yunhan Wang ♣♠ *, Jiaan Wang ♠†, Lianzhe Huang ♠, Xianfeng Zeng ♠ and Fandong Meng ♠†

♣Northeastern University, China ♠Weixin AI, Tencent Inc, China 

yunhannnan@gmail.com {torchwang,fandongmeng}@tencent.com 

Abstract 

Search Agents—large language models aug-mented with search tools—have intensified the need for future-proof evaluation benchmarks. Existing benchmarks such as BrowseComp rely on static knowledge, making them vulnerable to test-set contamination and parametric mem-orization. Consequently, models can achieve high scores through fact recall rather than gen-uine retrieval, obscuring true browsing compe-tence via reasoning shortcuts. In this paper, we introduce EvoBrowseComp, an evolving benchmark of 400 English and 400 Chinese contamination-free complex questions synthesized via live-web traversal. To collect these questions, we design a three-agent collab-orative framework: (1) a QA synthesis agent that retrieves fresh knowledge from the live web to synthesize QA pairs; (2) an information filtering agent that filters retrieved knowledge in terms of credibility and popularity to block parametric shortcuts; and (3) a high-level guid-ance agent that formalizes questions into rea-soning graphs to reduce logical redundancy and shortcuts in synthesized QA pairs. Because the framework supports fully automated synthesis, EvoBrowseComp can be regularly updated to prevent data contamination and maintain tem-poral freshness. Extensive experiments con-firm its great difficulty, requiring broad horizon-tal search. It establishes a scalable paradigm for auto-updatable, high-difficulty benchmark-ing that keeps pace with both evolving world knowledge and advancing agent capabilities. 1

1 Introduction 

Large Language Models (LLMs) augmented with web search tools, known as search agents (Wei et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2025; Zhou et al., 2025), 

* Work was done when Yunhan Wang was interning at Weixin AI, Tencent Inc, China. 

† Corresponding authors. 

1We have released the data at https://hf.co/ datasets/Krystalan/EvoBrowseComp ⼀家在加拿⼤东部业务规模庞⼤的测试管理软件⼚商 【TestCollab 】，为研发环境 

监测类软件的团队提供⼯具服务。 

其区域合作客户中，有⼀座潮汐能源研究中⼼ 【FORCE 】于 2025 年末获批⼤额 

政府资⾦，计划部署⾃主传感平台，在⼀处潮汐落差极⼤的海湾内研究⻥类与潮 

汐发电机组的相互作⽤关系 【HydroAware AI project at FORCE 】。

该研究中⼼推出的⼈⼯智能⻥类追踪项⽬，采⽤了某头部主流云服务商的云基础 

设施。另有⼀款测试优化平台 【DesignWise 】依托同款云基础设施 【亚⻢逊云科 

技 Bedrock 架构 】搭建⾃⾝ AI 能⼒，且该平台 从未适配整合其余两⼤主流云服 

务商 【微软 Azure 、⾕歌云 】的原⽣持续集成 / 持续部署⼯具。 

请问是哪⼀款竞品测试管理平台 【TestRail 10.2 】，在 2026 年第⼆季度发布新版 

本，推出了基于同款云端 AI 架构打造的⼈⼯智能⾃动化脚本⽣成功能？ 

"hop" : 1,

"entity" : "TestCollab" ,

"relation" : "is a test management software company founded in 2011 with headquarters 

in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada, serving Eastern Canadian markets" ,

"evidence" : "Test Collab is a company operating in the IT Services and IT Consulting in 

dustry, founded in 2011. It is headquartered at 140 50 Crowther Lane, Fredericton, New Brunswi 

ck, E3C 0J1, Canada." ,

"is_new_knowledge" : "No" 

}, 

{

"hop" : 2,

"entity" : "FORCE (Fundy Ocean Research Centre for Energy)" ,

"relation" : "is a tidal energy research center in the Bay of Fundy that received $8.2 mil 

lion in funding from Natural Resources Canada in September 2025 for the Ocean Sensor Innovati 

on Platforms (OSIP) project focused on fish -turbine interaction monitoring" ,

"evidence" : "Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) announced $8.2 million in funding for t

he Ocean Sensor Innovation Platforms (OSIP) project to advance environmental monitoring for ti 

dal energy in the Bay of Fundy. The project is led by the Fundy Ocean Research Centre for Energ 

y (FORCE)." ,

"is_new_knowledge" : "Yes" 

}, 

{

"hop" : 3,

"entity" : "HydroAware AI project at FORCE" ,

"relation" : "is an AI -

driven fish tracking initiative at FORCE that uses Amazon Web Services (AWS) Bedrock infrastr 

ucture for its AI capabilities, as part of expanded fish tracking programs with AI" ,

"evidence" : "FORCE 2025 Project Update mentions 'Expanded fish tracking programs w

ith AI (HydroAware)'. The AI capabilities in such environmental monitoring projects typically lev 

erage cloud infrastructure like AWS Bedrock for scalable AI processing." ,

"is_new_knowledge" : "Yes" 

}, 

{

"hop" : 4,

"entity" : "DesignWise" ,

"relation" : "is a test optimization platform whose AI capabilities are powered by Sembi 

IQ running on AWS Bedrock infrastructure (using Amazon Titan and Amazon Nova LLM), but it h

as never been integrated with the native CI/CD tools of Azure or Google Cloud Platform" ,

"evidence" : "Designwise AI Data Usage Policy states: 'AI capabilities are powered by S

embi IQ, which leverages Amazon Web Services (AWS) Bedrock infrastructure, specifically using 

Amazon Titan for text embeddings and Amazon Nova LLM for natural language generation.' Sear 

ch results confirm no native Azure or Google Cloud CI/CD integrations for DesignWise." ,

"is_new_knowledge" : "Yes" 

}, 

{

"hop" : 5,

"entity" : "TestRail 10.2" ,

"relation" : "is a version released in April 2026 that includes AI Test Script Generation 

powered by Sembi IQ, the same AI platform that runs on AWS Bedrock infrastructure" ,

"evidence" : "TestRail has announced the release of TestRail 10.2, featuring a new open 

beta capability called AI Test Script Generation. This feature is powered by Sembi IQ, a centrali 

zed AI platform from Sembi. The announcement was made in April 2026." ,

"is_new_knowledge" : "Yes" 

}

]

A test management software vendor with significant operations in Eastern Canada supplies tools to teams developing 

software for environmental monitoring. One of its regional clients is a tidal energy research center that secured 

substantial government funding in late 2025 for deploying autonomous sensor platforms to study fish -turbine 

interactions in a bay with extreme tidal variations. That research center's AI -driven fish tracking initiative utilizes 

cloud infrastructure from a specific major provider. A test optimization platform that leverages the same cloud 

infrastructure for its AI capabilities has never been integrated with the native CI/CD tools of the other two leading 

cloud providers. Which competing test management platform released a version in the second quarter of 2026 featuring 

AI -driven automation script generation built on that same cloud -based AI infrastructure? 

Question 

Retrieved Knowledge from the Live Web 

[TestCollab ] A test management software company with headquarters in Fredericton, serving Eastern 

Canadian markets .

[FORCE ] A tidal energy research center located in the Bay of Fundy in Eastern Canada, which focuses on 

the research of fish -turbine interaction monitoring technology .

[HydroAware AI project at FORCE ] A n AI -driven fish tracking initiative at FORCE that uses AWS 

Bedrock infrastructure for its AI capabilities .

[DesignWise ] A test optimization platform using AWS Bedrock infrastructure, never integrated with 

native CI/CD tools of Azure and Google Cloud Platform .

[TestRail 10.2 ] A version released in April 2026 that includes AI Test Script Generation powered by 

Sembi IQ, the platform that runs on AWS Bedrock infrastructure .

Figure 1: An illustrative example question from Evo-BrowseComp. Orange highlights fresh knowledge (post-2026) lies in its reasoning paths, while red denotes its final answer. 

have demonstrated remarkable performance on information-seeking tasks. These agents exer-cise web browsing ability —persistently navigat-ing the open web, executing multi-hop questions, and gathering fragmented evidence across differ-ent sources (Wu et al., 2025; Gupta et al., 2026). To measure this ability, many benchmark datasets are proposed sequentially. BrowseComp (Wei et al., 2025) and BrowseComp-ZH (Zhou et al., 2025) focus on horizontal search, evaluating persis-tence and creativity in locating hard-to-find facts. GAIA (Mialon et al., 2024) tests general assistant competence through real-world, multi-step tool use. BFCL (Patil et al., 2025) assesses search orches-tration via function calling, while WebWalker (Wu et al., 2025) isolates vertical traversal within struc-tured websites. More recently, specialized bench-marks have targeted higher-order retrieval compe-tencies: SealQA (Pham et al., 2025) probes robust-ness under noisy and conflicting retrieval condi-tions; while DeepSearchQA (Gupta et al., 2026) raises the bar by requiring exhaustive collation of 

> arXiv:2606.13120v1 [cs.CL] 11 Jun 2026

answer sets across multiple sources. These efforts have established a rich landscape for benchmarking LLMs’ web browsing ability. However, existing benchmarks are typically an-chored to static knowledge. For example, BrowseC-omp (Wei et al., 2025) and BrowseComp-ZH (Zhou et al., 2025) relies on question–answer pairs manu-ally curated at a fixed point in time; BrowseComp-Plus (Chen et al., 2025) freezes a curated document snapshot to ensure reproducibility; GAIA (Mialon et al., 2024) grounds its tasks in specific and im-mutable versions of web pages or attached files; and DeepSearchQA (Gupta et al., 2026), though time-anchored, comprises a static prompt set evalu-ated against a fixed answer key. This static nature renders them acutely vulnerable to test-set contami-nation: as pre-training corpora expand, benchmark content inevitably leaks into model parameters, en-abling models to solve questions via parametric memorization rather than genuine browsing and reasoning. As pointed out by Anthropic (2026a), the explicit leakage of BrowseComp answers into public data confirms that this benchmark has been compromised by data contamination. To address these limitations, we introduce Evo-BrowseComp , an evolving benchmark comprising 400 English and 400 Chinese complex questions automatically synthesized from live-web traversal. Our construction pipeline actively discovers and validates fresh knowledge and automatically con-structs QA pairs through a three-agent collaborative framework. First, a QA Synthesis Agent retrieves fresh knowledge via web tools and provides (can-didate) QA pairs based on the knowledge. Second, an Information Filtering Agent filters out retrieved knowledge in terms of credibility (verifying source credibility and cross-source consistency) and popu-larity (blocking parametric shortcuts through over-exposed knowledge). Third, a High-level Guid-ance Agent structures each question as a reason-ing graph using three basic operations: projection, intersection, and complement. It identifies both structural redundancies and shortcuts, and directs the QA synthesis agent toward specific synthesis directions. Moreover, we adopt several strategies to ensure data quality, including the verification of textual quality, answer uniqueness, and question difficulty. In this manner, high-quality challeng-ing questions involving fresh knowledge can be automatically collected (c.f., Figure 1). In contrast, prior benchmarks (Mialon et al., 2024; Wei et al., 2025; Zhou et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2025; Pham et al., 2025; Gupta et al., 2026) typically rely on labor-intensive human curation that makes regular updates prohibitively expensive. EvoBrowseComp removes this barrier: its synthesis pipeline is fully automated, requiring no costly manual annotation. This enables the benchmark to be refreshed continu-ously at minimal cost, swapping in newly emerged facts while retiring over-exposed ones. Based on EvoBrowseComp, we evaluate vari-ous LLMs under both tool-based and tool-free set-tings. The results reveal two critical phenomena. First, even Claude-Opus-4.6 (Anthropic, 2026b), a cutting-edge reasoning LLM, achieves only 44.8% accuracy when equipped with tools, indicating that our temporally fresh, structurally complex ques-tions are not easily retrieved. Second, when tool access is removed, Claude-Opus-4.6’s performance drops to 6.0%, confirming that answering these questions demands genuine retrieval and multi-hop reasoning over fresh knowledge, rather than static recall. We believe this establishes a sustainable, contamination-resistant paradigm for future-proof evaluation of search agents. In summary, our contributions are as follows: • We introduce EvoBrowseComp, a search agent benchmark comprising 400 English and 400 Chi-nese complex questions. Grounding questions in fresh knowledge, it prevents models from ex-ploiting parametric memorization. • We propose a fully automated three-agent syn-thesis framework. It requires no costly human annotation, enabling continuous, low-cost regen-eration that retires over-exposed questions and in-corporates newly emerged facts and knowledge. • Extensive evaluations demonstrate that even fron-tier LLMs achieve only modest accuracy ( <45%) with web tools, and their performance collapses sharply when tool access is removed ( <11%). This confirms that EvoBrowseComp effectively isolates genuine web browsing and multi-hop reasoning from static parametric recall. 

2 EvoBrowseComp 

EvoBrowseComp is built on two foundational prin-ciples. First, questions should involve fresh knowl-edge . By synthesizing questions from knowledge that emerges after training cutoffs, we prevent mod-els from answering via parametric memorization. Second, the construction pipeline should be fully automated and continuously evolvable . This en-ables periodic regeneration in which over-exposed Evidence  

> List 𝜀

𝜖 !    

> Top -10 Search
> Results &Web Page
> Multi -source Cross -Verification
> Search / Visit
> Tools
> Is the fresh evidence
> credible ?

Credible                     

> Not Credible
> Unclear
> Reliability Label
> Screen non -fresh
> evidence for too popular
> or overly covered
> Popular knowledge (e.g.) :
> 2008 Beijing Olympics
> Without
> Tools
> Non -Popular Evidence
> (Retain )
> Popular Evidence
> (Discard )
> Popularity
> Label
> Fresh
> 𝜖 !
> Non -fresh 𝜖 !
> Credible
> Fresh 𝜖 !
> Non -popular
> Non -fresh 𝜖 !
> Filtered
> Evidence List

𝜀                                             

> Information Filtering Agent
> QA Synthesis Agent a. Web Information
> Gathering
> Available Tools
> Visit
> Search
> b. QA -Pair
> 𝑞 !
> (#),𝑎 !
> (#)
> Seed
> Entity e
> Evidence List
> 𝜀 =𝜖 !,𝜖 !,⋯,𝜖 "
> t:January 1, 2026
> Fresh
> Non -Fresh
> High -Level Guidance Agent
> Edges( ℛ!
> (#))Map To 𝒪 =𝜋 %,∩,𝑣 &
> Node( 𝒱 !
> (#)): Entity / Attribute Set
> 𝒢 (,)=𝒱 .
> (,),ℛ.
> (,)
> Reasoning Graph
> Parsing
> Structured
> Guidance Generation
> Redundancy &
> Shortcut Detection
> Structural bypasses Isolated node
> Graph Editing
> Suggestions
> Reasoning Graph Construction Direction
> Candidate expansion :𝒪 =𝜋 %,∩,¬
> Reasoning Shortcuts? Reasoning Redundancy?
> YES NO YES NO
> Textual
> Instructions
> Textual
> Instructions
> QA -Pair
> 𝑞 !
> (#),𝑎 !
> (#)

Figure 2: The illustration of the three-agent collaborative framework. (a) QA synthesis agent retrieves knowledge from the live web and generates (candidate) QA pairs; (b) Information filtering agent judges each retrieved knowledge in terms of credibility and popularity (popular/over-covered or not credible knowledge will be discarded); (c) High-level guidance agent detects the logical redundancy and shortcuts in the candidate QA pairs based on the constructed reasoning graphs, and gives suggestions to the QA synthesis agent in the next iteration. 

questions are retired and replaced by newly sur-faced knowledge, guaranteeing long-term bench-mark validity without expensive human curation. 

2.1 Data Collection 

The data collection pipeline operates as an itera-tive feedback loop among three specialized agents (c.f., Figure 2). Beginning with seed entities, a QA synthesis agent searches the live web to pro-pose candidate QA pairs with retrieved knowledge. Each retrieved knowledge is evaluated by an infor-mation filtering agent in terms of credibility and popularity. A high-level guidance agent formalizes the underlying reasoning structure of a candidate question generated in the i-th iteration, detects its logical redundancy and shortcuts, and guides the QA synthesis agent in the next iteration. In this way, the three agents collaborate automatically to synthesize highly complex, high-quality QA pairs. 

Seed Entity. Synthesizing temporally fresh and logically complex QA pairs requires seed entities that tend to involve fresh knowledge. Rather than harvesting entities from a static knowledge graph— which risks stale facts—we collect seed entities through live-web retrieval. Specifically, we pre-define 9 core domains ( e.g. , science, economy and geography) and 50 fine-grained sub-domains. For each sub-domain, we equip an advanced LLM, i.e. ,DeepSeek-V3.2 (Liu et al., 2025), with search tools to aggregate recently surfaced entities mentioned in high-coverage news or official websites w.r.t the sub-domain. This process yields about 50K seed entities, denoted as E. Illustration examples of seed entity collection are provided in Appendix A.1. 

QA Synthesis Agent. For a given seed entity 

e ∈ E, the QA synthesis agent iteratively mines information from the live web to construct a QA pair ⟨q, a ⟩. The overall synthesis process can be formulated as a m-step iterative chain: 

e → ⟨ q(1) 

e , a (1) 

e ⟩ → ⟨ q(2) 

e , a (2) 

e ⟩ → · · · → ⟨ q(m)

e , a (m)

e ⟩ (1) 

where q(t)

e , a (t)

e denotes the question and its answer generated in t-th iteration, respectively. In detail, the agent involves two sub-steps in each iteration: (1) Web Information Gathering : The agent collects information via engaging in multi-turn interactions with web tools: a search tool uses the Google search engine to retrieve information and a visit 

tool extracts targeted information from specific web pages. In the course of this multi-turn interaction, we encourage the agent to gather fresh knowledge, defined as information that becomes available after a specified timestamp t.2 The agent then refines the gathered knowledge into an evidence list, denoted as E = {ϵ1, ϵ 2, ..., ϵ n}, where each ϵi indicates a concise knowledge statement ( e.g. , entity ei has some specific attributes). (2) QA Pair Construction : Leveraging the evidence 

2In this paper, we set t to January 1, 2026, and it can be trivially adjusted to other timestamps ( e.g. , training cutoffs of specific LLMs). list E, the agent incorporates these pieces of evi-dence to synthesize a complex QA pair ⟨q(t) 

> e

, a (t) 

> e

⟩.Ideally, all evidence in E is fresh knowledge, ensur-ing that the synthesized q(t) 

> e

is free from data con-tamination because it falls completely outside the search agents’ parametric memorization. However, fresh knowledge appears much less frequently on the live web than its counterpart, namely non -fresh knowledge ( i.e. , information already available be-fore the timestamp t). Consequently, although we encourage the agent to gather fresh knowledge, E

inevitably contains non -fresh knowledge. If we strictly require all evidence to be fresh knowledge, the scale of E will be too limited to synthesize a complex question. Therefore, we allow some non-fresh knowledge in E, and require the agent to clas-sify each ϵi as either fresh or non-fresh. To avoid overly covered answers induced by the non - fresh knowledge in E, we limit the final answer to be based on fresh knowledge. In this way, a prelimi-nary question ˆq(t) 

> e

together with its answer a(t) 

> e

is generated. To further enhance the difficulty of ˆq(t) 

> e

,wo follow Li et al. (2025); Lu et al. (2025) and ob-fuscate features and relationships within ˆq(t) 

> e

(e.g. ,vague time references and and non-specific descrip-tors) to obtain final question q(t) 

> e

. The prompts employed by the QA synthesis agent in these two sub-steps are presented in the Appendix A.2. 

Information Filtering Agent. Directly using the gathered evidence list E to synthesize QA pairs might involve the following issues: (1) The evi-dence might suffer from rumor propagation, mak-ing the synthesized QA pairs unreliable. This is-sue is particularly pronounced in the context of fresh knowledge compared to non-fresh knowl-edge (Alkhodair et al., 2020). (2) Too popular or over-covered non-fresh knowledge in E will make the relevant reasoning in the QA pairs too predictable for search agents (Lu et al., 2025). To deal with the above issues, we introduce an in-formation filtering agent to filter out flawed ϵi ∈ E :(1) For each fresh ϵi, the agent equipped with web tools ( i.e. , search and visit) to cross-validate the reliability of ϵi on the live web, and finally output a reliability label, i.e. , “credible”, “not credible”, or “unclear”. (2) For each non-fresh ϵj , the agent directly judges whether it is too popular or overly covered, without using any tools. It will output a popularity label, i.e. , “popular” or “non-popular”. Only credible fresh evidence and non-popular non-Test management software vendor with                                                      

> operations in Eastern Canada
> Tidal energy research center
> Specific major cloud provider
> Test optimization platform
> One of the other two leading cloud pro
> viders
> The other of the two leading cloud prov
> iders
> The second quarter of 2026
> Competing test management platform
> supplies tools to
> utilizes cloud infrastructure from
> leverages cloud
> infrastructure
> released aversion in
> has AI features
> built on
> Projection
> Intersection
> Complement
> integrated with native
> CI/CD tools of
> integrated with native
> CI/CD tools of
> Satisfy three conditions
> intersectingly

Figure 3: The illustration of a reasoning graph. 

fresh evidence are retained in E. If the length of E

is less than a pre-defined threshold k, the QA syn-thesis agent retries the web information gathering process to collect additional evidence. The prompts used to obtain the reliability and popularity labels are provided in the Appendix A.3. 

High-Level Guidance Agent. As pointed out by Tao et al. (2025), information-driven text-only synthesis paradigms struggle to capture underly-ing complex topologies ( e.g. , entity–relation struc-tures) and lack systematic control. As a result, the synthesized QA pairs tend to be redundant or 

shortcut-prone reasoning paths. In contrast, graphs offer a structured, semantically rich environment for multi-hop reasoning, enabling explicit control over reasoning paths (Lu et al., 2025). To mitigate reasoning redundancy and shortcuts inherent in text-only synthesis paradigms and to provide high-level, explicit control over QA syn-thesis, we introduce a high-level guidance agent. This agent structures each synthesized question q(t)

> e

into a reasoning graph Gte = {V te, Rte}, where Vte

and Rte denote the note set and the edge set in Gte,respectively. Figure 3 shows an example of Gte us-ing the example question in Figure 1. Each node 

vi ∈ V te indicates an object, i.e. , an entity (set) or an attribute (set). As for edges Rte, we employ log-ical operations to capture the complex topologies within Vte: (1) Intersection returns the intersection of vi and vj , denoted as vi ∩vj . For example, the in-tersection of Turing Award laureates and females is the set of female Turing Award laureates. (2) Com-plement returns the complement of vi, denoted as 

vi. For example, the complement of Turing Award laureates (with respect to all people) is the set of people who have not received the Turing Award. These two operations form a complete basis for ex-pressing any entity set (Enderton, 2001). To further support relations and attributes, we introduce: (3) 

Projection , which projects vi to vj via a specific relation r, denoted as vj = πr(vi). For example, 

πwinner (Turing Award ) denotes Turing Award lau-reates, while πgender (Jackie Chan ) denotes Jackie Chan’s gender. Based on the above definition, each edge in the graph is denoted by one of the three operations. After parsing q(t) 

> e

into Gte, we (1) detect reason-ing redundancy by checking for isolated nodes or subgraphs in Gte, and (2) detect reasoning short-cuts by examining whether there exist structural bypasses leading to the answer node. These detec-tions can be achieved by an off-the-shelf toolkit, 

i.e. , NetworkX 3. Further, using Gte together with the detected reasoning redundancies and shortcuts, the high-level guidance agent generates a textual instruction (denoted as Ite) that specifies the synthe-sis direction ( e.g. , which logical operations to add), and any redundancy or shortcuts should be avoided in the subsequent iteration. The instructions are fed into the QA synthesis agent and guide its behavior in the next iteration:        

>  Ite,⟨q(t)
> e, a (t)
> e⟩QA Synthesis Agent
> −−−−−−−−−−−−→ ⟨ q(t+1)
> e, a (t+1)
> e⟩(2)

The prompts of graph parsing and instruction generation are provided in the Appendix A.4. 

Iteration Termination. The iteration of the three-agent collaborative framework is repeated until all of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) the synthesized question q(t) 

> e

contains no redun-dancy or shortcuts; (2) at least five iterations have been executed; (3) the reasoning graph contains at least five edges, i.e. , |R te| ≥ 5.

2.2 Data Quality 

In the previous section, we mainly use the high-level guidance agent to control the data quality, i.e. ,avoid reasoning redundancy and shortcuts in the synthesized questions. To further ensure the textual quality, uniqueness and difficulty of the collected QA pairs, we employ the following strategies: 

Textual Quality. We evaluate whether each syn-thesized QA pair is fluent, clear, and unambiguous by using DeepSeek-V3.2 (DeepSeek-AI, 2025) as the judge model. Then, we filter out the low-quality QA pairs. The prompt is shown in Appendix B. 

> 3https://github.com/networkx/networkx

Uniqueness and Difficulty. To avoid alternative answers in the synthesized questions, we adopt a cross - validation method inspired by xbench-DeepSearch (Xbench-Team, 2025). In detail, for each question, we employ six cutting-edge LLMs 4

as search agents to answer the question three times independently 5, resulting in 18 solutions. If more than 80% of the solutions converge on the same in-correct answer, the question is treated as a multiple-answer question and is discarded. As for difficulty, if more than five (out of six) LLMs correctly an-swer the question, it will be discarded. After quality filtering, we balance the data distri-bution for each domain and ultimately obtain 400 English and 400 Chinese QA pairs, which consti-tute our EvoBrowseComp. To further reveal the data quality, we conduct human analyses on ran-domly selected 100 QA samples (50 English and 50 Chinese). Since directly asking humans to answer questions in a web environment is overly challeng-ing, we instead use the evidence list E as an anchor and require human evaluators to verify (1) whether each ϵi ∈ E is correct, and (2) whether each synthe-sized question is consistent with its corresponding evidence list E and is unambiguous; (3) whether each answer can be inferred by the evidence list 

E (for more details, please refer to Appendix C). The results indicate that 93.0% of evidence lists are entirely correct, and 90% of questions are both con-sistent with their corresponding evidence lists and unambiguous. 6 100.0% of answers can be inferred from E. Overall, 87% of QA pairs simultaneously pass the above three verifications, indicating the superiority of our synthesis framework. 

2.3 Data Statistics 

EvoBrowseComp contains 800 high-quality QA pairs (400 in English and 400 in Chinese). We ana-lyze the data statistics from the following aspects: 

Domain Distribution. As shown in Figure 4, Evo-BrowseComp is evenly distributed across nine pre-defined domains, ensuring broad coverage of the knowledge areas. 

Length. We calculate the average question length of EvoBrowseComp and previous bench-mark datasets. As shown in Table 1, The average     

> 4DeepSeek-V4, DeepSeek-V3.2, GLM-5, Kimi-K2.6, Qwen3.5-397B-A17B and Qwen3.5-122B-A10B.
> 5Temperature is set to 1.0; top_p is set to 0.95.
> 6The remaining 7% of evidence lists may involve hallu-cinations, and the remaining 10% of questions may exhibit minor ambiguity. 69(17.25%)
> 50(12.5%)
> 47(11.75%)
> 44(11%)
> 43(10.75%)
> 27(6.75%)
> 36(9%)
> 41(10.25%)
> 43(10.75%)
> 54(13.5%)
> 53(13.25%)
> 51(12.75%)
> 50(12.5%) 41(10.25%)
> 39(9.75%)
> 39(9.75%)
> 39(9.75%)
> 34(8.5%)
> EvoBrowseComp -ENEvoBrowseComp -ZH

Figure 4: Distribution across nine domains in Evo-BrowseComp.                             

> Data Scale Lang. Length Node BrowseComp (Wei et al., 2025) 1266 En 128.86 8.85 DeepSearchQA (Gupta et al., 2026) 900 En 65.33 5.83 EvoBrowseComp-EN (Our) 400 En 142.48 8.62 BrowseComp-ZH (Zhou et al., 2025) 289 Zh 73.88 6.63 WebWalkerQA (Wu et al., 2025) 680 Zh 33.99 4.63 EvoBrowseComp-ZH (Our) 400 Zh 162.33 8.07

Table 1: Data Statistics of EvoBrowseComp com-pared with previous benchmark datasets (Lang.: Lan-guage). “Length” denotes the average question length, and “Node” denotes the average number of nodes in the reasoning graphs. 

question lengths in EvoBrowseComp are 142.48 and 162.33 tokens for English and Chinese, respec-tively, which are generally longer than those in previous datasets, particularly for Chinese. 

Complexity. We use reasoning graphs to struc-ture complex questions in Section 2.1. In addi-tion to EvoBrowseComp, we also extract reasoning graphs for complex questions of previous datasets. The average number of nodes in reasoning graphs, which can reflect questions’ complexity, is also re-ported in Table 1: The average number of nodes in EvoBrowComp-EN is similar to that in BrowseC-omp (8.62 vs. 8.85). On Chinese data, the average number of nodes in EvoBrowComp-Zh is signifi-cantly greater than others, i.e. , 8.07 vs. 6.63/4.63, indicating the complexity of our data. 

Source Diversity. During collecting the evidence list E in data synthesis, we also record the source URL of each evidence ϵi ∈ E . To characterize the source diversity of the synthesized questions, we calculate, for each question, the number of distinct root domains present in the corresponding E. For example, if the evidence for a given question is drawn from “a.com” and “b.com”, there are two distinct root domains. Theoretically, the greater the number of distinct root domains, the more com-plex and difficult the question becomes. As shown 230 88 103 101 56 15 41         

> ≥3 root domains: 92.0% (N = 400)
> 123456789025 50 75 100 The Number of Questions The Number of Distinct Root Domains  EvoBrowseComp-EN 12 24 80 118 106 47 10 3≥3 root domains: 91.0% (N = 400)
> 123456789050 100 The Number of Questions The Number of Distinct Root Domains  EvoBrowseComp-ZH Source Diversity of the Synthesized Questions

Figure 5: Distribution of the number of distinct root domains per question in EvoBrowseComp. 

in Figure 5, the number of distinct root domains per question in EvoBrowseComp exhibits a distinct bell-shaped distribution. On average, each ques-tion involves 4.2 distinct root domains, and over 90% of questions require reasoning across at least three independent sources. This makes cross-site evidence aggregation and verification a necessary prerequisite for answering. 

2.4 Evaluation Protocol 

In model evaluation, search agents are required to answer the given complex questions under the multi-turn interactions with the following two web tools: (1) Search uses the Google search engine to retrieve information. (2) Visit extracts targeted in-formation from specific web pages. The definition and implementation of these tools are derived from Team et al. (2025). 7 Following previous bench-mark datasets (Wei et al., 2025; Zhou et al., 2025), we also employ the LLM-as-a-judge paradigm in model evaluation. Specifically, a judge model is used to verify whether a model prediction is correct or not. The judge prompt is derived from Team et al. (2025); Xbench-Team (2025), and is provided in the Appendix D. We use GLM-5-Chat (Zeng et al., 2026) as the judge model since it shows a strong correlation with human judgments (please refer to the Appendix E). The evaluation metric is accuracy based on the model judgments. 

3 Experiments 

3.1 Experimental Setup LLMs. Based on our EvoBrowseComp, we evaluate the following cutting-edge LLMs: Claude-Opus-4.6 (Anthropic, 2026b), Qwen3.5-397B-

> 7

https://github.com/Alibaba-NLP/ DeepResearch Model English Chinese w/ tools w/o tools w/ tools w/o tools Claude-Opus-4.6 44.8 6.0 36.8 8.8 GLM-5 39.2 1.1 30.5 2.5 Kimi-K2.6 31.0 0.0 19.8 1.6 Qwen3.5-397B-A17B-FP8 42.0 2.9 34.5 3.1 Qwen3.5-122B-A10B 29.2 2.9 21.0 2.6 Qwen3.5-35B-A3B 29.2 0.8 14.2 1.2 Qwen3.5-27B 25.0 2.8 18.6 4.5 Qwen3-235B-A22B-Thinking-2507 16.5 3.5 17.5 7.0 DeepSeek-V4-Pro 16.5 0.8 15.0 3.5 DeepSeek-V4-Flash 16.5 2.0 10.8 4.5 DeepSeek-V3.2 23.0 6.3 30.5 10.3 

Table 2: Experimental results on EvoBrowseComp. The bold and the underline denote the best and second-best performances, respectively. 

A17B-FP8 8, Qwen3.5-122B-A10B 9, Qwen3.5-35B-A3B 10 , Qwen3.5-27B 11 (Qwen, 2026), Qwen3-235B-A22B-Thinking-2507 12 (Yang et al., 2025), DeepSeek-V4-Pro 13 , DeepSeek-V4-Flash 14 (DeepSeek-AI, 2026), DeepSeek-V3.2 15 (DeepSeek-AI, 2025), GLM-5 16 (Zeng et al., 2026) and Kimi-K2.6 17 (Kimi, 2026). 

Implementation Details. In data collection, all three agents are employed based on DeepSeek-V3.2 (DeepSeek-AI, 2025). The pre-defined thresh-old k is set to 5 in the information filtering agent. In model evaluation, all open-source LLMs are deployed on NVIDIA H20 GPUs (96G) using SGLang 18 . Most models are run on 8 GPUs, ex-cept DeepSeek-V4-Pro and GLM-5, which each use 32 GPUs, and DeepSeek-V3.2, which uses 16 GPUs. We adopt sampling-based decoding with a temperature of 0.6 and a top_p of 0.95. We set the maximum context length to 128K for all LLMs to ensure a fair comparison, and limit the maximum                 

> 8https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen3. 5-397B-A17B-FP8
> 9https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen3. 5-122B-A10B
> 10 https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen3. 5-35B-A3B
> 11 https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen3. 5-27B
> 12 https://huggingface.co/Qwen/ Qwen3-235B-A22B-Thinking-2507
> 13 https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/ DeepSeek-V4-Pro
> 14 https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/ DeepSeek-V4-Flash
> 15 https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/ DeepSeek-V3.2
> 16 https://huggingface.co/zai-org/GLM-5
> 17 https://huggingface.co/moonshotai/ Kimi-K2.6
> 18 https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang
> Model BC EvoBC.-EN BC-ZH EvoBC.-ZH DeepSeek-V3.2 51.4 23.0 65.0 30.5 GLM-5 62.0 39.2 72.7 30.5 Qwen3.5-397B 69.0 42.0 70.3 34.5

Table 3: The performance of three example LLMs on BrowseComp (BC), BrowseComp-ZH (BC-ZH) and EvoBrowseComp-EN/ZH (EvoBC.-EN/ZH). 

number of tool calls to 40. All LLMs are evaluated with the (maximum) thinking mode. After model prediction, we use GLM-5-Chat (zero temperature) as the judge model. For each LLM, we run three independent evaluations and report the average. 

3.2 Results & Analyses 

Table 2 presents the model performances on Evo-BrowseComp, and we analyze the results from the following aspects: 

Tool-Free Setting. Without tools, most LLMs’ ac-curacy is below 5% ( e.g. , Kimi-K2.6 only achieves 0% and 1.6% in English and Chinese, respectively), and even the best-performing LLM (DeepSeek-V3.2) only achieves 6.3% in English and 10.3% in Chinese. The limited tool-free performance sug-gests that EvoBrowseComp effectively prevents reliance on parameterized memory by introducing fresh knowledge in the complex questions. 

Tool-Based Setting. With access to web tools, in English, Claude-Opus-4.6 ranks first with 44.8%, followed by Qwen3.5-397B (42.0%) and GLM-5 (39.2%). The results of the Chinese evaluation also show similar trends. Taking Qwen3.5-397B, GLM-5 and DeepSeek-V3.2 as example LLMs, we also compare their performance on EvoBrowseComp and previous BrowseComp(-ZH) (Wei et al., 2025; Model English Chinese Acc. ER. Acc. ER. DS-V4-Chat 27.2 51.8 20.0 47.5 DS-V4-High 34.5 38.8 24.8 54.5 DS-V4-Max 16.5 75.5 10.8 82.5 Claude-Opus-4.6 44.8 26.2 36.8 25.2 

> Table 4: The performance of DeepSeek-V4-Flash on EvoBrowseComp using different reasoning efforts. DS.: DeepSeek; ACC.: “accuracy”; ER.: “Exceed Ratio” indicates the proportion of evaluation samples that ex-ceeds the maximum allowed number of tool calls.

Zhou et al., 2025). 19 As shown in Table 3, we find that the model performances on our data are significantly lower than those on BrowseComp / BrowseComp-ZH, indicating the difficulty of our complex questions. 

The Effect of Reasoning Effort. We also ob-serve that DeepSeek-V4-Pro/Flash underperforms DeepSeek-V3.2. We manually inspect the predic-tions of DeepSeek-V4 and find that many evalua-tion samples exceed the maximum allowed number of tool calls (40; c.f., § 3.1), which leads to its un-satisfactory performance. To figure out the effect of reasoning effort, we use DeepSeek-V4-Flash as an example and evaluate its performance under three configurations: the original max-reasoning setting, a high-reasoning setting (DeepSeek-V4-High), and a non-reasoning setting (DeepSeek-V4-Chat). In addition to accuracy, we also report the proportion of evaluation samples that exceeds the maximum allowed number of tool calls (abbr. ER). As shown in Table 4, we find that DeepSeek-V4-Flash-High achieves the best performance among three con-figurations, while DeepSeek-V4-Flash-Max even underperforms DeepSeek-V4-Flash-Chat. In terms of ER, we find that DeepSeek-V4 achieves much high ER scores than the best-performing LLM (Claude-Opus-4.6). For example, DeepSeek-V4-Max achieves 75.5% and 82.5% ER scores in En-glish and Chinese, respectively. This phenomenon raises concerns about reasoning efficiency. Al-though state-of-the-art LLMs exhibit strong rea-soning capabilities, enhancing their reasoning effi-ciency remains crucial for practical applications. 

> 19 The results on BrowseComp and BrowseComp-Zh are di-rectly borrowed from Zeng et al. (2026); DeepSeek-AI (2025); Qwen (2026).

4 Related Work 

A growing body of work introduces benchmarks to evaluate the browsing, reasoning, and retrieval capabilities of LLMs. Early datasets such as Nat-uralQuestions (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019), Trivi-aQA (Joshi et al., 2017), and HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018) focus on single-hop or multi-hop fact retrieval; however, many of these datasets are effectively handled by cutting-edge LLMs (Mi-alon et al., 2024). To raise the difficulty ceiling, BrowseComp (Wei et al., 2025) introduces reverse-engineered questions requiring persistence and cre-ativity in information seeking, while BrowseComp-Plus (Chen et al., 2025) provides a fixed, human-verified corpus to disentangle retriever performance from search agent reasoning. Parallel efforts such as BrowseComp-ZH (Zhou et al., 2025) extend BrowseComp to Chinese, and WebWalkerQA (Wu et al., 2025) emphasizes vertical web traversal through structured official websites. GAIA (Mi-alon et al., 2024) proposes conceptually simple yet execution-heavy tasks for general AI assistants, re-quiring diverse tool use and multi-step planning. DeepSearchQA (Gupta et al., 2026) shifts the eval-uation focus from single-answer retrieval to exhaus-tive set generation, stressing systematic collation, entity resolution, and stopping criteria. More re-cently, SealQA (Pham et al., 2025) highlights the brittleness of search-augmented models under con-flicting, noisy, or misleading retrieval results. De-spite their respective strengths, these benchmarks largely rely on static or fixed corpora. As noted by Pham et al. (2025), this static nature renders them susceptible to progressive data contamination. Different from previous datasets, we design a three-agent framework to automatically discover fresh 

knowledge and construct contamination-free com-plex questions. Without costly manual annotation, our data can be regularly updated to prevent data contamination and ensure temporal freshness. 

5 Conclusion 

In this paper, we introduce EvoBrowseComp, an evolving search agent benchmark, which contains 400 English and 400 Chinese contamination-free complex QA pairs. We design a three-agent col-laborative framework to discover fresh knowledge from the live web and synthesize the QA data. Mul-tiple strategies are implemented to ensure data qual-ity, including the avoidance of reasoning redun-dancy and shortcuts, as well as the verification of textual quality, answer uniqueness, and question difficulty. Human analyses further indicate that the synthesized data achieves a high level of quality. Since the framework operates entirely automati-cally and does not require costly manual annotation, it can be regularly updated to prevent data contami-nation and ensure temporal freshness. Furthermore, experimental results on cutting-edge LLMs under-score the challenges posed by this data. Thus, it establishes a sustainable paradigm for the future-proof evaluation of search agents. 

Limitations 

While we show the effectiveness of the three-agent synthesis framework, there are some limi-tations worth noting: (1) We employ DeepSeek-V3.2 (DeepSeek-AI, 2025) as the backbone of the three agents, and thus, the synthesized data might involve the same biases and toxic behaviors exhib-ited by the model. (2) In the model evaluation, we use the judge model to assess only the final answers rather than the entire reasoning trajectory. Consequently, it becomes difficult to distinguish an agent that reasoned correctly from one that ob-tained the correct answer through inefficient or ac-cidental means ( e.g. , lucky guessing). 

Ethical Considerations 

We discuss the main ethical considerations of Evo-BrowseComp as follows: (1) Licenses. We will release our synthesized data under CC-BY-NC-SA 4.0 license. (2) Privacy Information. We extract knowledge from the publicly available web pages, and we filter out potential privacy information via LLMs. 

References 

Sarah A Alkhodair, Steven HH Ding, Benjamin CM Fung, and Junqiang Liu. 2020. Detecting breaking news rumors of emerging topics in social media. In-formation Processing & Management , 57(2):102018. Anthropic. 2026a. Eval awareness in claude opus 4.6’s browsecomp performance. Anthropic. 2026b. System card: Claude opus 4.6. Zijian Chen, Xueguang Ma, Shengyao Zhuang, Ping Nie, Kai Zou, Andrew Liu, Joshua Green, Kshama Patel, Ruoxi Meng, Mingyi Su, et al. 2025. Browsecomp-plus: A more fair and transparent eval-uation benchmark of deep-research agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.06600 .DeepSeek-AI. 2025. Deepseek-v3.2: Pushing the frontier of open large language models. CoRR ,abs/2512.02556. DeepSeek-AI. 2026. Deepseek-v4: Towards highly efficient million-token context intelligence. H B Enderton. 2001. A Mathematical Introduction to Logic . Elsevier. Nikita Gupta, Riju Chatterjee, Lukas Haas, Connie Tao, Andrew Wang, Chang Liu, Hidekazu Oiwa, Elena Gribovskaya, Jan Ackermann, John Blitzer, et al. 2026. Deepsearchqa: Bridging the comprehensive-ness gap for deep research agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.20975 .Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2017. TriviaQA: A large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehen-sion. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Vol-ume 1: Long Papers) , pages 1601–1611, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics. Kimi. 2026. Kimi k2.6: Advancing open-source coding. Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Red-field, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Ken-ton Lee, Kristina Toutanova, Llion Jones, Matthew Kelcey, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew M. Dai, Jakob Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natu-ral questions: A benchmark for question answering research. Transactions of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics , 7:452–466. K Li, Z Zhang, H Yin, et al. 2025. Websailor: Navi-gating super-human reasoning for web agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.02592 .Aixin Liu, Aoxue Mei, Bangcai Lin, Bing Xue, Bingx-uan Wang, Bingzheng Xu, Bochao Wu, Bowei Zhang, Chaofan Lin, Chen Dong, et al. 2025. Deepseek-v3. 2: Pushing the frontier of open large language models. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.02556 .Rui Lu, Zhenyu Hou, Zihan Wang, Hanchen Zhang, Xiao Liu, Yujiang Li, Shi Feng, Jie Tang, and Yux-iao Dong. 2025. Deepdive: Advancing deep search agents with knowledge graphs and multi-turn rl. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.10446 .Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. 2024. GAIA: a benchmark for general AI assistants. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representa-tions .OpenAI Team. 2025. OpenAI o3 and o4-mini system card. Shishir G Patil, Huanzhi Mao, Fanjia Yan, Char-lie Cheng-Jie Ji, Vishnu Suresh, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E. Gonzalez. 2025. The berkeley function calling leaderboard (BFCL): From tool use to agentic evaluation of large language models. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning .Thinh Pham, Nguyen Nguyen, Pratibha Zunjare, Weiyuan Chen, Yu-Min Tseng, and Tu Vu. 2025. Sealqa: Raising the bar for reasoning in search-augmented language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.01062 .Qwen. 2026. Qwen3.5: Towards native multimodal agents. Z Tao, J Wu, W Yin, et al. 2025. Webshaper: Agenti-cally data synthesizing via information-seeking for-malization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.15061 .Tongyi DeepResearch Team, Baixuan Li, Bo Zhang, Dingchu Zhang, Fei Huang, Guangyu Li, Guoxin Chen, Huifeng Yin, Jialong Wu, Jingren Zhou, et al. 2025. Tongyi deepresearch technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.24701 .Jason Wei, Zhiqing Sun, Spencer Papay, Scott McK-inney, Jeffrey Han, Isa Fulford, Hyung Won Chung, Alex Tachard Passos, William Fedus, and Amelia Glaese. 2025. Browsecomp: A simple yet challeng-ing benchmark for browsing agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.12516 .Jialong Wu, Wenbiao Yin, Yong Jiang, Zhenglin Wang, Zekun Xi, Runnan Fang, Linhai Zhang, Yulan He, Deyu Zhou, Pengjun Xie, and Fei Huang. 2025. Web-Walker: Benchmarking LLMs in web traversal. In 

Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 10290–10305, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computational Linguistics. Xbench-Team. 2025. Xbench-deepsearch. An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, et al. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 .Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christo-pher D. Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 2369–2380, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Com-putational Linguistics. Jerrold H Zar. 2005. Spearman rank correlation. Ency-clopedia of biostatistics , 7. Aohan Zeng, Xin Lv, Zhenyu Hou, Zhengxiao Du, Qinkai Zheng, Bin Chen, Da Yin, Chendi Ge, Chenghua Huang, Chengxing Xie, et al. 2026. Glm-5: from vibe coding to agentic engineering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15763 .Peilin Zhou, Bruce Leon, Xiang Ying, Can Zhang, Yi-fan Shao, Qichen Ye, Dading Chong, Zhiling Jin, Chenxuan Xie, Meng Cao, et al. 2025. Browsecomp-zh: Benchmarking web browsing ability of large language models in chinese. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19314 .

A Construction Details 

A.1 Examples of Seed Entity Construction Prompt for Seed Entity Construction                       

> You are an expert in seed entity generation. Given a “pri-mary domain : sub-domain” pair, your task is to aggre-gate entities that have recently surfaced (in 2026) under the specified sub-domain, as reported by authoritative news outlets or official websites.
> Input
> • Primary domain: {primary_domain}
> • Sub-domain: {secondary_domain}
> • Number of seeds to generate: {num_seeds}
> Tool
> •search(query) : performs a live web search and returns a list of webpage snippets.
> Requirements
> 1. Freshness : Each entity must have either newly emerged in 2026 or undergone a significant at-tribute change in 2026 (e.g., newly founded organi-zations, newly released products, newly appointed individuals, newly occurred events). 2. Source reliability : Each entity must be reported by authoritative news sources (e.g., Reuters, BBC, Xinhua) or official websites (e.g., .gov sites, offi-cial homepages, reputable encyclopedias). Avoid personal blogs, self-media, and content farms. 3. Diversity : Cover a broad range of entity types, including people, organizations, events, products, concepts, and locations. 4. Multi-round search : Issue multiple search()
> calls with diversified queries to comprehensively cover the different facets of the sub-domain.
> Output Format
> {"domain": {"primary": "<primary domain>", "secondary": "<sub-domain>"}, "total_count": {num_seeds}, "seeds": [{"id": 1, "entity_name": "<entity name>", "is_fresh": true} ]}
> Now begin: first plan your search queries, then per-form multiple rounds of search() , and finally output
> {num_seeds} seed entities.

A.2 Examples of the QA Synthesis Agent Prompt for Evidence Collection 

Role: Knowledge Collection Agent 

Starting from the given seed, perform multiple rounds of 

search and visit to collect structured evidence that will support downstream QA construction. 

Definition of Fresh Knowledge 

Events, relations, attributes updates that occurred on or after January 1, 2026. 

Tools 

• search(query) : live web search. • visit(url) : fetch the full content of a specific page. 

Strategy 

1. Iterative exploration : Starting from the seed, itera-tively invoke search/visit, following hyperlinks to expand the entity network. 2. Prioritize fresh knowledge : Augment queries with time-aware keywords such as “2026”, “latest”, or “current”. 3. Mandatory verification : Every piece of evidence must come from a page you have actually visited; do not record evidence based on search snippets alone. 4. Chainability : Evidence items should share entities with one another so that they can later be linked into evidence chains. 

Output Format 

[{"evidence_id": "e_001", "head_entity": "Entity A", "relation": "relation or 

,→ attribute description", "tail_entity": "Entity B or 

,→ attribute value", "evidence_text": "verbatim 

,→ snippet from the source page", "source_url": "URL actually 

,→ visited", "is_fresh_knowledge": true }]

Quantity Requirement 

Collect at least {num_evidence} evidence items, with no less than 50% marked as fresh knowledge. 

<seed>{seed}</seed> 

Prompt for QA Construction 

Role: QA Construction Agent 

Based on the provided evidence list, construct {num} 

reasoning QA pairs. 

<evidence_list> {evidence_list} </evidence_list> 

Hard Requirements 1. Reasoning Chain 

• At least 5 hops , with each hop introducing a fresh entity or relation (no looping in place). 

• The final hop must be fresh knowledge. 

(is_fresh_knowledge = true )

2. Answer 

The answer must fall into one of the following types to ensure uniqueness and evaluability: • Deterministic attributes (time, number, or proper nouns with unique referents). • The intersection, difference, or ranking result de-rived from multiple entities along the chain. 

3. Obfuscation (Core) 

Goal : prevent the model from identifying entities via memorization or a single search; the full reasoning chain must be traversed. • Non-fresh knowledge : use descriptions whose indi-vidual words are common but whose combination points to a rare attribute. • Fresh knowledge : anchor the description on a non-core but retrievable attribute, and phrase it with moderate vagueness. • Time / location : replace explicit values with event anchors or rare attribute combinations. • The answer entity must not be directly or indirectly hinted at within the question. 

4. Anti-Shortcut 

The final interrogative clause must be tightly bound to the last unresolved entity in the reasoning chain, and must not pivot to a public event or globally known attribute. 

Output Format 

[{"id": "qa_001", "question": "obfuscated question 

,→ ", "answer": "final answer", "hop_count": 5, "knowledge_order": "nonfresh-

,→ nonfresh-fresh-fresh-fresh", "reasoning_chain": [{"hop": 1, "evidence_id": "e_xxx", "entity": "...", "relation": "...", "is_fresh_knowledge": false }]}]

Output the JSON array directly. 

A.3 Examples of Information Filtering Agent Prompt for Fresh Knowledge Reliability As-sessment 

Role: Knowledge Reliability Verification Assistant 

Use the search and visit tools to cross-validate the given evidence list and assess its reliability. 

Evidence List to Verify 

Each item is a triple (head_entity, relation, tail_entity) supported by evidence_text 

from source_url , and flagged as fresh knowledge via is_fresh_knowledge .

{evidence_list} 

Tools 

• search(query) : live web search. • visit(url) : fetch the full content of a specific page. 

Verification Procedure 

1. For each evidence item, extract the key fact represented by the triple (head_entity, relation, tail_entity) .2. Issue search queries to retrieve relevant results, and visit authoritative sources (official web-sites, mainstream media, reputable encyclopedias) when further confirmation is needed. The provided 

source_url may be visited as one reference, but must not be counted as an independent corrob-oration. 3. Cross-validation : for each triple, find at least two independent sources that corroborate it. 4. Assign an overall reliability label for the entire evidence list: • credible : every triple is consistently sup-ported by multiple independent and trustwor-thy sources. • not credible : at least one triple is con-tradicted by sources, or supported only by untrustworthy sources. • unclear : available information is insuffi-cient to make a definitive judgment on one or more triples. 

Output Format 

Output only the following JSON. Do not add any addi-tional text or code-block markers: 

{"reliability": "credible | not 

,→ credible | unclear" }

Prompt for Non-fresh Knowledge Popular-ity Assessment 

Role: Knowledge Assessment Assistant 

Based solely on your internal knowledge , judge whether the given evidence list is too popular or overly covered. 

Evidence List to Assess 

Each item is a triple (head_entity, relation, tail_entity) supported by evidence_text 

from source_url , and flagged as non-fresh knowl-edge via is_fresh_knowledge .

{evidence_list} 

Criteria 

• popular : the entities or facts described by the triples have prominent, widely known features, allowing you to identify the referents directly and unambiguously. • non-popular : the descriptions are relatively 

obscure or lack distinctive features, requiring addi-tional clues to identify the referents. 

Instructions 

• Assess every triple in the list, then assign one over-all label: 

– Label as popular only if the majority of triples clearly describe widely known enti-ties or facts. 

– Otherwise, label as non-popular .• If the content lies beyond your knowledge scope (e.g., involves future information or entirely unfa-miliar concepts), label it as non-popular .

Output Format 

Output only the following JSON. Do not add any addi-tional text or code-block markers: 

{"popularity": "popular | non-

,→ popular" }

A.4 Examples of High-level Guidance Agent Prompt for Question Graph Parsing 

Role: Question Graph Parsing Expert 

Parse the given (question, answer, reasoning_chain) into a strict Question Graph. 

Graph Definition 

• Node : a set of entities or attribute values. • Edge : one of exactly three operations. 

– projection (πr ): traverse one step along relation r, either forward or backward. 

– intersection (∩): take the intersection of multiple entity sets. 

– complement (¬): take the complement of an entity set. 

Core Principles 

1. Faithful to the literal semantics of the question :the reasoning_chain serves only as a refer-ence for entity and relation names; do not use it to forcibly connect subgraphs that have no logical dependency in the question itself. 2. Local connectivity : even when an isolated sub-graph functions as mere “background filler,” its internal edges must still be built according to the literal logic expressed in the question. 

Node Fields 

• node_id : starts from n0 .• label : semantic description of the node. • known_entities : entities explicitly given in the question; otherwise null .• reference_entities : real entity names not mentioned in the question but provided by the rea-soning_chain; otherwise null .• is_root : whether this node is the answer node. Input 

• question : {question} • answer : {answer} • reasoning_chain : {reasoning_chain} 

Output Format 

Output only the following JSON, with no additional text: 

{"question": "...", "answer": "...", "root_node_id": "n_x", "nodes": [{"node_id": "n0", "label": "...", "known_entities": [...] or null 

,→ ,"reference_entities": [...] or 

,→ null, "is_root": false} ], "edges": [{"edge_id": "e0", "source_ids": ["n0"], "target_id": "n1", "op": "projection |

,→ intersection | complement", "relation": "...", "direction": "forward |

,→ backward"} ]}

Prompt for QA Synthesis Direction 

Role: QA Synthesis Direction 

Given the parsed Question Graph, propose one concrete expansion suggestion that makes the question more com-plex and adversarial. 

Input 

• question : {question} • answer : {answer} • graph_json : {graph_json} 

Allowed Operations (only the following three edge types may be added) • projection : traverse one step along a relation. • intersection : add an additional condition that must be jointly satisfied. • complement : add an exclusionary constraint. 

Candidate Strategies 

• Strategy A (Complement) : attach a “never / exclud-ing . . . ” constraint to a node, producing a hard negative that retrieval systems struggle to handle. • Strategy B (Inverse Projection) : flip a forward pro-jection into its inverse (effect → cause), which is inherently harder to reason about than forward inference. 

• Strategy C (Intersection Expansion) : add an inter-section branch on an intermediate node. Placing it on an early node (left-deep tree) or on a node close to the answer (right-deep tree) modulates how the reasoning difficulty is distributed along the path. 

Output Format 

Output only the following JSON, with no additional text: 

{"expansion_advice": {"target_text_span": "the exact 

,→ text span of the target entity 

,→ copied verbatim from the 

,→ original question", "suggested_operation": "

,→ complement | projection |

,→ intersection", "selected_strategy": "Complement 

,→ | Inverse Projection |

,→ Intersection Expansion", "reasoning": "why this operation 

,→ and strategy are chosen, and 

,→ how they increase the graph’s 

,→ complexity and reasoning 

,→ difficulty", "semantic_suggestion": "a natural 

,→ -language description of the 

,→ concrete modification to apply 

,→ "}}

B Low Quality QA pairs filtering 

Prompt for QA Data Quality Filtering 

Role: QA Data Quality Filtering 

Inspect the given QA pair and output only “pass” or “fail”. 

Input 

• question : {question} • answer : {answer} 

Inspection Criteria (failing any single item results in “fail”) 

1. Completeness 

• Both question and answer are non-empty, non-whitespace, and free of truncation or garbled text. 

2. Question Language Quality 

• Fluent and natural, consistent with how a human would naturally ask, with no grammatical errors or signs of machine-generated patchwork. • Sentence structure is clear, avoiding excessive nested modifiers. • Semantically unique and unambiguous, with no unclear references, vague scope, or multiple valid interpretations. • Forms a complete interrogative sentence with an explicit target of inquiry. 3. Answer Quality         

> •Concise and definite, easy to evaluate automati-cally (e.g., a specific entity, number, or date). •Semantically unique, with no equally valid alter-native answers. •Free of ambiguous expressions or vague qualifiers.
> Output Format
> Output only the following JSON, with no additional text or code-block markers:
> {"thinking": "brief reasoning", "result": "pass |fail" }

C Human Analyses on Data Quality 

Two data experts from the author team, proficient in both English and Chinese, are involved in the human analyses. For (1) whether each ϵi ∈ E is correct: each expert verifies whether ϵi is consis-tent with or can be inferred from its source web pages. For (2) whether each synthesized question is consistent with its corresponding E and is un-ambiguous; and (3) whether each answer can be inferred by the corresponding E, the data experts also give their judgments independently. In cases where the two experts have differing judgments on a specific issue, the final decision will be reached through discussion. 

D Prompt of LLM-as-a-judge 

Prompt for LLM-as-a-Judge                             

> You are ageneral artificial intelligence assistant. Based on the [Correct Answer] provided below, judge whether the [Response] to the [Original Question] below is correct.
> [Original Question] : {question}
> [Correct Answer] : {correct_answer}
> [Response] : {response} Your judgment must follow the following format and standards:
> Final Answer : The final accurate answer extracted from the [Response] . If there is no clear final answer in the [Response] , fill in ’None’ .
> Explanation : Explain why the [Final Answer] is correct or incorrect based on the [Correct Answer] .Only focus on whether there is a substantial difference between the [Final Answer] and the [Correct Answer] ; do not comment on the background of the question, do not attempt to re-solve the problem, do not defend any answer different from the [Correct Answer] , and only focus on judging whether the an-swers are consistent.

Model Spearman GPT-4.1 0.830 DeepSeek-V4-Flash-Chat 0.812 DeepSeek-V4-Flash-Max 0.828 DeepSeek-V3.2-Chat 0.824 DeepSeek-V3.2-Think 0.803 Kimi-K2.6-Chat 0.730 Kimi-K2.6-Think 0.843 GLM-5-Chat 0.864 

GLM-5-Think 0.847 

Table 5: The Spearman correlation between LLM judge and human judge.         

> Conclusion : If the [Final Answer] is consistent with the [Correct Answer] provided above, or within an acceptable small error range for numerical questions, fill in ’Correct’ ; otherwise (i.e., in case of any inconsistency, ambiguity, inequivalence, or incorrect extracted answer), fill in ’Incorrect’ .

E Selection of the Judge Model 

To select a reliable judge model in model evalu-ation, we randomly select 800 model predictions from the main experiments (Section 3.1), and re-spectively use the following cutting-edge LLMs as the judge models: GPT-4.1 (OpenAI Team, 2025), DeepSeek-V4-Flash-Chat, DeepSeek-V4-Flash-Max (DeepSeek-AI, 2026), DeepSeek-V3.2-Chat, DeepSeek-V3.2-Think (DeepSeek-AI, 2025), Kimi-K2.6-Chat, Kimi-K2.6-Think (Kimi, 2026), GLM-5-Chat and GLM-5-Think (Zeng et al., 2026). To figure out their correlation with humans, we also manually annotate whether each model prediction is correct or not. Similar to the human analyses (Appendix C), two data experts participate in the human annotation process, independently making their assessments and subsequently discussing any discrepancies in their judgments. As shown in Ta-ble 5, GLM-5-Chat achieves the best correlation with human judgments in terms of Spearman corre-lation (Zar, 2005).