Title: AdaMem: Adaptive User-Centric Memory for Long-Horizon Dialogue Agents

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.16496v1

Published Time: Wed, 18 Mar 2026 01:26:47 GMT

Number of Pages: 16

Markdown Content:
# AdaMem: Adaptive User-Centric Memory for Long-Horizon Dialogue Agents 

Shannan Yan 1,2 *, Jingchen Ni 1*, Leqi Zheng 1*, Jiajun Zhang 3,Peixi Wu 1,2 , Dacheng Yin 2, Jing LYU 2, Chun Yuan 1†, Fengyun Rao 2†

> 1

Tsinghua University 2WeChat Vision, Tencent Inc. 3USTC 

Abstract 

Large language model (LLM) agents increas-ingly rely on external memory to support long-horizon interaction, personalized assistance, and multi-step reasoning. However, existing memory systems still face three core chal-lenges: they often rely too heavily on seman-tic similarity, which can miss evidence crucial for user-centric understanding; they frequently store related experiences as isolated fragments, weakening temporal and causal coherence; and they typically use static memory granularities that do not adapt well to the requirements of different questions. We propose AdaMem, an adaptive user-centric memory framework for long-horizon dialogue agents. AdaMem orga-nizes dialogue history into working, episodic, persona, and graph memories, enabling the system to preserve recent context, structured long-term experiences, stable user traits, and relation-aware connections within a unified framework. At inference time, AdaMem first resolves the target participant, then builds a question-conditioned retrieval route that com-bines semantic retrieval with relation-aware graph expansion only when needed, and finally produces the answer through a role-specialized pipeline for evidence synthesis and response generation. We evaluate AdaMem on the Lo-CoMo and PERSONAMEM benchmarks for long-horizon reasoning and user modeling. Ex-perimental results show that AdaMem achieves state-of-the-art performance on both bench-marks. The code will be released upon accep-tance. 

1 Introduction 

Recent advances in large language model (LLM)-based agents have enabled increasingly capable systems for open-ended dialogue, multi-step rea-soning, and interactive assistance (Schlegel et al., 2025; Schmidgall et al., 2025). Yet these settings  

> *Equal Contribution. †Corresponding author. This work was done when Shannan Yan was an intern at Tencent Inc.

Figure 1: Comparison of previous methods and AdaMem. Conventional approaches rely on fixed-length chunks or coarse summaries with semantic re-trieval, while AdaMem emphasizes user-centric adap-tive structured memories and multi-agent collaborative retrieval. 

are inherently long-horizon: an agent must contin-ually accumulate information across many turns, preserve salient details as user goals evolve, and recover the right evidence when it becomes rele-vant again. This makes memory a central require-ment rather than a peripheral add-on. A useful memory system should not only store past interac-tions, but also organize them in a form that remains queryable, coherent, and robust as the conversa-tion grows longer and more diverse. Otherwise, memory can become redundant, fragmented, or misaligned with the needs of downstream reason-ing, leading to inconsistent behavior and poorly grounded responses. Many recent agent frameworks therefore aug-ment LLMs with explicit external memory mod-ules that support incremental writing, updating, and retrieval throughout interaction (Yan et al., 2025; Rasmussen et al., 2025). Despite this progress, current approaches still face three limitations. 

Limitation 1: Memory systems that rely primar-ily on semantic retrieval may overlook evidence that is not lexically or semantically similar to the query, but is still crucial for user-centric understand-ing, such as stable preferences, personal attributes, 

> arXiv:2603.16496v1 [cs.CL] 17 Mar 2026

or broader behavioral patterns. 

Limitation 2: When related experiences are stored as isolated fragments, their temporal and causal coherence can be weakened, making it dif-ficult to reconstruct how events unfolded and how different pieces of evidence should be connected during reasoning. 

Limitation 3: Different questions require dif-ferent memory structures and retrieval strategies. As illustrated in Figure 1, many systems con-struct memory entries using either fixed-length text chunks (Zhang et al., 2025b; Wu et al., 2025). Such static segmentation is often a poor fit for long-horizon reasoning: overly coarse memories may in-troduce substantial irrelevant context, while overly fine-grained fragments can obscure dependencies across events and topics. These limitations suggest that effective long-horizon memory should be both structured and 

adaptive : it should preserve information at multiple levels of abstraction while dynamically selecting retrieval routes that match each question. Moti-vated by this observation, we propose AdaMem ,an adaptive user-centric memory framework for long-horizon dialogue agents. AdaMem main-tains participant-specific working, episodic, per-sona, and graph memories, organizing evidence around the user and the assistant in a unified yet target-aware manner. Unlike prior systems that rely on a monolithic controller for memory writ-ing, retrieval, verification, and response generation, AdaMem uses a role-specialized agent pipeline. The Memory Agent maintains structured memories, the Research Agent performs question-conditioned retrieval and evidence integration with reflection, and the Working Agent turns the collected evi-dence into a concise answer. This decomposition reduces interference between memory maintenance and answer-time reasoning, enabling finer control over retrieval, verification, and memory evolution. Together, these design choices recover user infor-mation beyond pure semantic similarity, preserve links across related events, and adapt retrieval gran-ularity to the demands of the question. In summary, our contributions are: • We introduce AdaMem, an adaptive user-centric memory framework for long-horizon dialogue agents that organizes dialogue his-tory into complementary working, episodic, persona, and graph-based memory structures. • We propose a question-conditioned retrieval and response pipeline that resolves target par-ticipants, invokes relation-aware graph expan-sion only when needed, and uses specialized agents for evidence synthesis and answer gen-eration. • We validate our approach on the LoCoMo and PERSONAMEM benchmarks, achieving state-of-the-art performance and demonstrat-ing its strong effectiveness. 

2 Related Works 

2.1 Agentic Memory 

Recent research on memory systems for large lan-guage model agents has evolved from simple con-text extension toward more structured and adap-tive management. Early approaches typically pro-cess long contexts by partitioning them into smaller chunks (Zhong et al., 2024; Mei et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025a; Liu et al., 2024). Subsequent work introduces more advanced memory mechanisms. For instance, MemGPT (Packer et al., 2023) man-ages long-term memory through paging and seg-mentation. Later studies explore more modular and system-level designs; Mem0 (Chhikara et al., 2025) abstracts memory as an independent layer for long-term management. Meanwhile, several works investigate structured memory representations to improve organization, including graph-based mem-ories such as A-Mem (Xu et al., 2025) and semantic memory structures built upon events or temporal knowledge graphs, such as Zep (Rasmussen et al., 2025). Despite these advances, many existing ap-proaches still rely on static retrieval strategies or largely unstructured storage, which may lead to in-formation fragmentation and limited coordination across different abstraction levels and task cate-gories. Designing a unified and adaptive memory system that robustly supports long-term interac-tions therefore remains an important challenge. 

2.2 Multi-Agent LLMs 

Recent studies have shown that multi-agent LLMs can effectively address complex tasks by enabling role specialization, collaborative problem solving, and interactive decision making (Tran et al., 2025; Cemri et al., 2025; Hammond et al., 2025; Yue et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025a). At the same time, an increasing number of works on agentic memory aim to enhance the capability of large lan-guage model agents to model and retain long-term information (Yan et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025b). Although these efforts provide useful perspectives on coordination and task decomposition, they typ-ically do not focus on how long-horizon dialogue evidence should be organized and adaptively re-trieved in a user-centric manner. A recent study, MIRIX (Wang and Chen, 2025), takes an initial step in this direction by introducing specialized agents for memory organization. However, it does not provide explicit mechanisms to ensure the con-sistency of long-term memory. Motivated by these observations, our work draws on role specializa-tion from the multi-agent literature, but focuses primarily on user-centric memory construction and question-conditioned retrieval for long-horizon di-alogue agents. 

3 Approach 

We present AdaMem, a memory-augmented dia-logue framework that continuously organizes user-centric memories at inference time and answers questions through adaptive retrieval over hetero-geneous memory sources. AdaMem consists of four tightly coupled components: memory con-struction, question-conditioned retrieval planning, evidence fusion, and response generation. The over-all pipeline is illustrated in Figure 2. 

3.1 Method Overview 

Given a dialogue history D = {ut}Tt=1 and a question q, AdaMem returns an answer a

grounded in dynamic memories. AdaMem main-tains participant-specific memory bundles for the user and the assistant, and each bundle contains four memory structures: • Working Memory Mw: a bounded FIFO buffer that preserves recent conversational context and short-term discourse states. • Episodic Memory Me: long-term structured records including events, facts, attributes, and topic-centric summaries. • Persona Memory Mp: compact user profiles distilled from episodic evidence to capture relatively stable preferences and traits. • Graph Memory G: a heterogeneous graph connecting messages, topics, facts, attributes, and event or persona snapshots for relation-aware retrieval. Detailed graph construction rules are provided in Appendix C. This participant-specific organization is important because many questions in multi-party conversa-tions implicitly target one speaker, both speakers, or an ambiguous referent. Accordingly, AdaMem follows a single end-to-end pipeline: it first writes each utterance into structured participant memo-ries, then resolves the likely target participant for 

q, retrieves evidence from one or more memory channels, and finally produces the answer from the fused evidence set R(q).

3.2 Memory Construction Message understanding and normalized write. 

For each incoming utterance ut from participant 

p, the Memory Agent first produces a normalized record zt containing a short summary, topic, atti-tude, reason, factual snippets, attributes, timestamp, and speaker identity. All downstream memory up-dates operate on zt rather than on raw free-form text, so the same canonical parse is reused across working, episodic, persona, and graph memories. This design reduces prompt drift across memory modules and makes the write path explicit. 

Working-to-episodic consolidation. For each participant, working memory is a bounded FIFO queue with capacity Cw. When the queue becomes full, AdaMem pops the oldest contiguous segment of r messages and consolidates that segment into 

Me. The segment is therefore determined by re-cency order rather than by question-aware salience, preventing future questions from implicitly influ-encing write-time memory selection. Within the popped segment, three router modules indepen-dently process event-, fact-, and attribute-level ev-idence. Each router predicts one of ADD , UPDATE ,or IGNORE , together with a target key if an exist-ing entry should be revised. The resulting updates populate event, fact, and attribute stores, while the original messages remain available as cacheable provenance for later evidence recovery. 

Topic regrouping, persona refresh, and graph synchronization. After consolidation, AdaMem converts fine-grained episodic keys into reusable higher-level memories in two stages. First, event or attribute keys are embedded and linked by a sparse nearest-neighbor graph: each key is connected to its most similar peer, and the connected compo-nents define merge groups. Second, an LLM merge prompt rewrites each group into a topic-centric or aspect-centric summary. Topic groups are used to build topic episodic memories and preference-Figure 2: Model overview. Dialogue history is organized into working, episodic, persona, and graph memories, and question answering is performed through target-aware, question-conditioned retrieval and role-specialized evidence synthesis. 

oriented persona descriptors, while clustered at-tributes are merged into aspect-based persona sum-maries. In parallel, both message-level and consol-idated records are indexed into G, so later retrieval can move between local discourse evidence and longer-term structured abstractions. 

3.3 Question-Conditioned Retrieval Target participant resolution. Before retrieval, AdaMem resolves whether q refers to the user, the assistant, both, or an ambiguous participant. The implementation uses a lightweight four-way resolver based on explicit participant mentions; if the referent is ambiguous, the system avoids a hard commitment and instead runs a small re-trieval on both participant bundles before fusion. This makes target uncertainty visible to the retrieval stage rather than hiding it inside later answer gen-eration. 

Route planning. Given q, AdaMem builds a question-conditioned route plan π(q) that speci-fies whether graph expansion should be used, how far it may propagate, how many graph seeds are activated, which edge-type priors are applied, and how baseline and graph evidence will be fused. The planner first applies deterministic cue detec-tion over temporal, relational, attribute, and single-hop question patterns. These cues initialize a rule-based plan. When the question remains uncertain, an optional LLM refinement step can revise the plan, but only within narrow bounded ranges so that the planner remains conservative and semantic retrieval stays dominant for simple questions. As a result, single-hop factoid questions usually remain on lightweight semantic retrieval, whereas tempo-ral or causal questions trigger broader structural exploration. 

Target-aware baseline retrieval. For a selected participant bundle, baseline retrieval aggregates semantic candidates from persona summaries, episodic facts, and topic-linked messages: 

Rbase (q) = TopK( Rattr (q) ∪ R fact (q) ∪ R topic (q)) ,

(1) where attribute candidates come from persona sum-maries, fact candidates come from episodic fact memory, and topic candidates are linked back to original messages through topic-to-message maps. Beyond pure top-K aggregation, AdaMem applies two recovery mechanisms. First, high-confidence fact hits reactivate their supporting discourse mes-sages. Instead of attaching all neighboring contexts, AdaMem uses a score-drop rule over ranked fact matches to decide how many supporting messages should be reintroduced. Second, a lightweight key-word backoff over a word-to-detail index recalls raw messages that are weakly covered by dense retrieval but lexically salient for the question. 

Graph retrieval and evidence fusion. When 

π(q) requests relation-aware evidence, AdaMem selects top semantic seed nodes in G and performs bounded multi-hop expansion. If a seed node ureaches a neighbor v through edge type e, the prop-agated score is updated by a fixed multiplicative rule 

sd+1 (v) = sd(u) · we · λ, (2) where we is the edge-type prior and λ is a hop-decay factor. Owner-aware filtering is applied only when the target participant is unambiguous. This yields Rgraph (q), which is fused with baseline evi-dence by 

score( m | q) = α s base (m, q ) + β s graph (m, q )+γ s recency (m) + δ s fact (m).

(3) Here sbase (m, q ) and sgraph (m, q ) are rank-derived scores from baseline and graph retrieval, respectively; srecency (m) is a linear recency prior over the merged candidate list; and sfact (m) is a small confidence bonus for items also supported by fact retrieval. Notably, for the fusion weights, a global default prior is fixed before evaluation. 

3.4 Multi-Agent Collaboration Memory Agent. The Memory Agent is responsi-ble for online message understanding and mem-ory updates. For each new utterance, it ex-tracts a normalized representation, writes it into the participant-specific working memory, triggers working-to-episodic consolidation when the short-term buffer saturates, and synchronizes the result-ing message and memory artifacts to graph memory. Persona descriptors are then refreshed from aggre-gated episodic evidence at the indexing stage, so the system maintains both up-to-date local context and compact long-term user models. 

Research Agent. At question answering time, the Research Agent performs iterative evidence gathering over the unified retrieval interface de-scribed above. It follows a Planning → Search →

Integrate → Reflection loop: it first decomposes the information needed to answer q, then issues one or more retrieval requests through the same participant-aware retrieval API, integrates newly recovered evidence into a consolidated research summary, and decides whether additional search is still necessary. Importantly, this agent-level plan-ning is distinct from the route plan π(q): the Re-search Agent decides what missing information to ask for, while the route planner described above decides how each retrieval call is executed. 

Working Agent. The Working Agent converts the research summary into the final concise answer. It conditions generation primarily on the integrated summary returned by the Research Agent and, when needed, supplements it with high-confidence persona attributes or factual snippets as auxiliary grounding. This separation allows evidence col-lection and answer realization to be optimized for different roles while preserving a single memory interface. AdaMem answers each question through a fixed collaboration order among these roles. As a re-sult, response generation remains tightly coupled with the same user-centric memory interface and retrieval backbone introduced above, while allo-cating explicit deliberation to multi-step evidence synthesis before final answer generation. 

4 Experiments 

4.1 Experimental Setting Benchmarks. To assess the effectiveness of our approach, we conduct experiments on the LoCoMo benchmark (Maharana et al., 2024). LoCoMo poses a challenging setting for long-context mod-eling, consisting of dialogue histories that span an average of 35 sessions and roughly 9,000 tokens. Following the benchmark’s standard evaluation pro-tocol, we report quantitative results across four core capabilities: single-hop reasoning, multi-hop reasoning, temporal reasoning, and open-domain question answering. The original benchmark also includes an adversarial question category designed to test a model’s ability to identify unanswerable queries. To further examine the generalization capabil-ity of our approach, we conduct additional experi-ments on the PERSONAMEM benchmark (Jiang et al., 2025). It is designed to assess how well large language models maintain and update user repre-sentations and produce personalized responses over extended interactions. The benchmark comprises multi-session dialogue histories in which user at-tributes and preferences gradually evolve as a result of life events and changing contexts. Following its standard evaluation protocol, we report quantita-tive results across seven categories, each targeting different aspects of user modeling and memory uti-lization. 

Evaluation Metrics. For the LoCoMo bench-mark, we follow the standard evaluation protocol and report F1 and BLEU-1 as the primary metrics. For the PERSONAMEM benchmark, which pri-marily consists of multiple-choice questions, we evaluate model performance using accuracy. 

4.2 Implementation Details 

We conduct experiments on both closed-source APIs and open-source models. The closed-source models include GPT-4.1-mini and GPT-4o-mini (Achiam et al., 2023). For open-source models, we evaluate Qwen3-4B-Instruct and Qwen3-30B-A3B-Instruct (Yang et al., 2025). Experiments are conducted on a NVIDIA RTX A800 GPU. We en-sure that the AdaMem framework uses the same backbone model as the response generator. To en-sure reproducibility, the temperature is fixed to 0 in all experiments. For the RAG component in our framework, the retrieval top-k is set to 10, and the maximum number of retrieval iterations Li is lim-ited to 2 for efficiency. All memory embeddings are computed using the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 model (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). More implementa-tion details are provided in Appendix B and prompt templates are provided in Appendix E. 

4.3 Comparison to competitive approaches Baselines. We compare AdaMem with five rep-resentative open-source memory frameworks: (1) 

MemGPT (Packer et al., 2023), a framework that addresses long-context limitations through an OS-inspired memory management mechanism; (2) A-Mem (Xu et al., 2025), an agentic memory system that enables dynamic organization and evolution of long-term memory; (3) Mem0 (Chhikara et al., 2025), a memory-centric architecture that provides scalable long-term memory; (4) LangMem (Chase, 2024), a framework that explicitly models long-term memory; (5) Zep (Rasmussen et al., 2025), a memory layer that represents conversational mem-ory using a temporally aware knowledge graph. 

Results on LoCoMo. The quantitative results on the LoCoMo benchmark using closed-source backbones are summarized in Table 1. With GPT-4.1-mini, AdaMem achieves an overall F1 score of 44.65%, corresponding to a +4.4% rela-tive improvement over the previous state-of-the-art method. The improvement is consistent across eval-uation metrics, with the largest gain observed in the temporal question category, where AdaMem im-proves the F1 score by up to +23.4%. Using GPT-4o-mini, AdaMem achieves an overall F1 score of 41.84%, which corresponds to a larger relative improvement of +12.8% over the previous state-of-the-art method. AdaMem does not outperform the strongest baselines in the Open Domain categories, likely because some tasks favor methods tailored to specific structural assumptions. This result sug-gests a trade-off between optimizing for special-ized task structures and achieving consistent per-formance across diverse long-horizon interactions. Overall, the results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of our approach across different closed-source backbones. We further report results using open-source models in Table 4. Case studies are provided in Appendix D. 

Results on PERSONAMEM. To evaluate the generalization capability of AdaMem across bench-marks, we further evaluate it on the PERSON-AMEM benchmark. As shown in Table 2, AdaMem achieves 63.25% accuracy, outperform-ing all baselines with a relative improvement of 5.9%. Notably, AdaMem demonstrates a substan-tial advantage on the generalize to new scenarios task, achieving a relative improvement of 27.3%. These consistent gains across benchmarks with dif-ferent data distributions suggest that AdaMem gen-eralizes effectively to diverse long-term reasoning scenarios. 

4.4 Ablation Study 

Unless otherwise stated, we perform all ablations of AdaMem on the LoCoMo benchmark using the GPT-4.1-mini backbone. 

Components. We perform component ablations to quantify the contribution of AdaMem’s main de-sign choices. As shown in Table 3, removing any one of the three components consistently reduces performance, suggesting that the improvement of AdaMem does not come from a single dominant module. Disabling graph memory produces the largest drop, reducing overall F1 from 44.65 to 42.63. This result is consistent with our motivation in Section 3: relation-aware memory is important for recovering cross-turn dependencies and tempo-rally linked evidence that may be missed by seman-tic retrieval alone. Removing the fusion module also leads to clear degradation (42.77 F1), indicat-ing that jointly combining baseline retrieval, graph evidence, and lightweight temporal/factual signals yields more reliable evidence selection than relying on a single signal source. Replacing the multi-agent response pipeline with a single-agent variant causes a smaller but still consistent decline (43.24 Table 1: Performance on the LoCoMo benchmark. The best performance is highlighted in bold , and the second-best is underlined.                                                                                                                                        

> Model Method Multi-hop Temporal Open Domain Single-hop Overall F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 GPT-4.1-mini
> MemGPT 10.35 10.26 30.06 24.03 28.35 23.49 22.95 17.10 22.50 17.64 A-Mem 11.16 11.07 42.30 33.75 30.69 25.38 24.84 18.54 26.37 20.70 Mem0 35.19 26.55 34.38 29.07 20.88 15.57 42.66 36.90 38.16 32.04 LangMem 36.45 28.53 42.57 35.91 28.80 23.13 44.82 38.25 41.76 35.10 Zep 26.73 17.91 20.97 17.55 21.24 16.92 39.96 35.10 32.40 27.09
> AdaMem 37.70 32.08 55.90 42.37 25.87 21.70 44.84 40.02 44.65 37.92 GPT-4o-mini
> MemGPT 10.08 9.99 29.34 23.49 27.72 22.95 22.41 16.74 21.96 17.28 A-Mem 10.89 10.80 41.31 33.03 29.97 24.84 24.30 18.09 25.74 22.95 Mem0 30.60 22.50 39.60 33.57 24.21 17.28 39.69 30.60 37.08 30.51 LangMem 30.24 21.60 28.89 23.67 26.55 21.24 35.01 29.88 32.31 26.55 Zep 24.57 17.28 39.96 34.02 20.43 14.04 35.46 30.06 33.48 27.63
> AdaMem 35.18 26.32 51.49 37.06 25.82 21.46 42.21 36.43 41.84 33.78

Table 2: Performance on the PERSONAMEM benchmark. 

Method Recall user shared facts Suggest new ideas Track full preference evolution Revisit reasons behind preference updates Provide preference-aligned recommendations Generalize to new scenarios Average 

A-Mem 63.01 27.96 54.68 85.86 69.09 57.89 59.75 Mem0 32.13 15.05 54.68 80.81 52.73 57.89 48.55 LangMem 31.29 24.73 53.24 81.82 40.00 8.77 40.64 

AdaMem 67.81 21.51 61.15 89.90 65.45 73.68 63.25 

Table 3: Ablation on key components.                          

> Configuration Graph Fusion Multi-agent F1 BLEU-1 AdaMem (full) ✓✓✓44.65 37.92
> w/o graph ✗✓✓42.63 35.85 w/o fusion ✓✗✓42.77 36.26 w/o multi-agent ✓✓✗43.24 36.34

F1), suggesting that role specialization mainly im-proves evidence organization and final answer syn-thesis after retrieval. Overall, the three compo-nents are complementary: graph memory improves structural evidence coverage, fusion improves ev-idence aggregation, and multi-agent coordination improves downstream reasoning quality. 

Model Sizes. We further study whether AdaMem remains effective when the response backbone changes in both scale and model family. Table 4 compares two closed-source GPT-4 backbones with two open-source Qwen3 models while keep-ing the AdaMem framework unchanged. AdaMem generalizes well across backbone families. Even with the smaller open-source Qwen3-4B-Instruct model, AdaMem still reaches 36.78 F1 on Lo-CoMo, showing that the memory architecture re-mains useful under a constrained model budget. Scaling the backbone to Qwen3-30B-A3B-Instruct yields consistent gains on every category, improv-ing overall performance by +6.24 F1 over Qwen3-4B. The largest gain appears on temporal reason-ing (+13.17 F1), followed by multi-hop reasoning (+6.91 F1), which suggests that larger models make better use of AdaMem’s structured evidence when questions require linking events over time or syn-thesizing multiple memory fragments. Overall, this experiment shows that AdaMem is both robust un-der smaller models and able to translate additional model capacity into stronger long-horizon reason-ing. 

Hyperparameters. We study the sensitivity of AdaMem to two key hyperparameters that directly control evidence breadth and deliberation depth: the retrieval top-K and the maximum number of Research Agent iterations Li. Results are shown in Figure 3. This analysis helps determine whether AdaMem’s gains come from a stable operating regime or from overly aggressive evidence accu-mulation. Fixing Li = 2 , we vary K ∈ { 5, 10 , 15 }. Per-formance improves substantially from K = 5 to 

K = 10 , indicating that very small candidate pools often fail to cover the dispersed evidence needed for multi-session reasoning. Increasing K further to 15 yields only marginal gains over K = 10 ,suggesting diminishing returns once the main sup-Table 4: Ablation on model sizes.                                                       

> Model Multi-hop Temporal Open Domain Single-hop Overall F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 F1 BLEU-1 GPT-4o-mini 35.18 26.32 51.49 37.06 25.82 21.46 42.21 36.43 41.84 33.78
> GPT-4.1-mini 37.70 32.08 55.90 42.37 25.87 21.70 44.84 40.02 44.65 37.92
> Qwen3-4B-Instruct 29.50 23.35 40.45 29.74 20.05 17.68 39.74 34.98 36.78 30.68
> Qwen3-30B-A3B-Instruct 36.41 29.47 53.62 39.88 25.84 21.58 43.36 38.27 43.02 35.66

Figure 3: Ablation on key hyperparameters. 

porting evidence has already been retrieved. We therefore use K = 10 as the default setting, as it achieves nearly the best performance while avoid-ing the additional latency and noise introduced by a larger evidence set. Fixing K = 10 , we vary Li ∈ { 1, 2, 3}. Both F1 and BLEU-1 peak at Li = 2 . Using only 1 iter-ation is often insufficient for questions that require decomposition or follow-up retrieval, whereas ex-tending the loop to 3 iterations slightly hurts per-formance, likely because later rounds accumulate redundant or weakly related evidence. This trend is consistent with the design of the Research Agent: it-erative retrieval is beneficial, but only under a tight budget that preserves evidence precision. Thus, we use Li = 2 as the default setting. Overall, AdaMem is moderately sensitive rather than brittle, and the default configuration used in our main experiments provides a favorable performance–efficiency trade-off. 

4.5 Efficiency Analysis 

We analyze the performance-efficiency trade-off of AdaMem. Table 5 reports the average input token budget, end-to-end inference latency, and overall F1 and BLEU-1. AdaMem is not the cheapest sys-tem in raw computation: Mem0 uses fewer input tokens and lower latency. However, AdaMem de-livers the strongest answer quality, reaching 44.65 F1, which corresponds to absolute gains of +7.57 F1 over Mem0. Compared with A-Mem and Zep, AdaMem also achieves substantially better accu-racy while operating with a token budget of the same order. 

Table 5: Performance-efficiency trade-off.                     

> Method F1 BLEU-1 Tokens Latency (s)
> A-Mem 26.37 20.70 2720 3.227 Mem0 38.16 32.04 1340 3.739 Zep 32.40 27.09 2461 3.255
> AdaMem 44.65 37.92 2248 4.722

These results suggest that AdaMem’s advantage does not come from aggressively minimizing re-trieval cost, but from allocating a moderate amount of additional computation to recover higher-quality evidence. The extra latency is consistent with our design: question-conditioned route planning, graph-based expansion, and the role-specialized response loop introduce overhead, but they also improve evidence coverage and synthesis for long-horizon questions. Overall, AdaMem occupies a favorable operating point among memory-based methods, converting a moderate increase in token usage and latency into clearly stronger reasoning performance. 

5 Conclusion 

In this paper, we presented AdaMem, an adaptive user-centric memory framework for long-horizon dialogue agents. AdaMem combines participant-specific working, episodic, persona, and graph-based memories with question-conditioned re-trieval planning and unified evidence fusion, en-abling the system to retrieve and integrate evidence in a more structured and target-aware manner. Ex-periments on long-horizon reasoning and user mod-eling benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework. In particular, AdaMem achieves state-of-the-art performance on LoCoMo, showing the value of adaptive memory organization and retrieval for complex multi-session interactions. More broadly, our results suggest that memory for long-horizon dialogue agents should move be-yond uniform storage and fixed retrieval heuristics toward more adaptive, question-aware, and user-centric designs. Limitations 

AdaMem improves answer quality through struc-tured memories, adaptive retrieval, and role-specialized evidence synthesis, but this design also increases system complexity, token cost, and la-tency. In addition, the framework still depends on upstream parsing and backbone reasoning, mak-ing errors in target resolution, entity linking, and temporal normalization difficult to recover. In fu-ture work, we intend to explore solutions to these challenges in order to further enhance both the efficiency and the generality of the proposed frame-work. 

References 

Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, and 1 others. 2023. Gpt-4 techni-cal report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774 .Mert Cemri, Melissa Z Pan, Shuyi Yang, Lakshya A Agrawal, Bhavya Chopra, Rishabh Tiwari, Kurt Keutzer, Aditya Parameswaran, Dan Klein, Kan-nan Ramchandran, and 1 others. 2025. Why do multi-agent llm systems fail? arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.13657 .Harrison Chase. 2024. Langmem. https://github. com/langchain-ai/langmem . LangChain project. Accessed: 2025-07-20. Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. 2025. Mem0: Building production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413 .Lewis Hammond, Alan Chan, Jesse Clifton, Jason Hoelscher-Obermaier, Akbir Khan, Euan McLean, Chandler Smith, Wolfram Barfuss, Jakob Foerster, Tomáš Gavenˇ ciak, and 1 others. 2025. Multi-agent risks from advanced ai. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14143 .Bowen Jiang, Zhuoqun Hao, Young Min Cho, Bryan Li, Yuan Yuan, Sihao Chen, Lyle Ungar, Camillo Jose Taylor, and Dan Roth. 2025. Know me, respond to me: Benchmarking llms for dynamic user profil-ing and personalized responses at scale. In Second Conference on Language Modeling .Zhiwei Liu, Weiran Yao, Jianguo Zhang, Liangwei Yang, Zuxin Liu, Juntao Tan, Prafulla K Choubey, Tian Lan, Jason Wu, Huan Wang, and 1 others. 2024. Agentlite: A lightweight library for building and advancing task-oriented llm agent system. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.15538 .Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov, Mohit Bansal, Francesco Barbieri, and Yuwei Fang. 2024. Evaluating very long-term conversational memory of llm agents. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 13851– 13870. Kai Mei, Xi Zhu, Wujiang Xu, Mingyu Jin, Wenyue Hua, Zelong Li, Shuyuan Xu, Ruosong Ye, Yingqiang Ge, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025. Aios: Llm agent operating system. In Second Conference on Language Modeling .Charles Packer, Sarah Wooders, Kevin Lin, Vivian Fang, Shishir G Patil, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E Gonzalez. 2023. Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08560 .Preston Rasmussen, Pavlo Paliychuk, Travis Beauvais, Jack Ryan, and Daniel Chalef. 2025. Zep: a tempo-ral knowledge graph architecture for agent memory. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13956 .Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing and the 9th international joint conference on natural language processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) .Katja Schlegel, Nils R Sommer, and Marcello Mor-tillaro. 2025. Large language models are proficient in solving and creating emotional intelligence tests. 

Communications Psychology .Samuel Schmidgall, Yusheng Su, Ze Wang, Ximeng Sun, Jialian Wu, Xiaodong Yu, Jiang Liu, Michael Moor, Zicheng Liu, and Emad Barsoum. 2025. Agent laboratory: Using llm agents as research assis-tants. Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 .Khanh-Tung Tran, Dung Dao, Minh-Duong Nguyen, Quoc-Viet Pham, Barry O’Sullivan, and Hoang D Nguyen. 2025. Multi-agent collaboration mech-anisms: A survey of llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.06322 .Bing Wang, Xinnian Liang, Jian Yang, Hui Huang, Zhenhe Wu, ShuangZhi Wu, Zejun Ma, and Zhoujun Li. 2025a. Scm: Enhancing large language model with self-controlled memory framework. In Interna-tional Conference on Database Systems for Advanced Applications . Springer. Yu Wang and Xi Chen. 2025. Mirix: Multi-agent mem-ory system for llm-based agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.07957 .Yu Wang, Ryuichi Takanobu, Zhiqi Liang, Yuzhen Mao, Yuanzhe Hu, Julian McAuley, and Xiaojian Wu. 2025b. Mem-{\ alpha }: Learning memory con-struction via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.25911 .Yaxiong Wu, Sheng Liang, Chen Zhang, Yichao Wang, Yongyue Zhang, Huifeng Guo, Ruiming Tang, and Yong Liu. 2025. From human memory to ai memory: A survey on memory mechanisms in the era of llms. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.15965 .Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Juntao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025. A-mem: Agen-tic memory for llm agents. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems .Sikuan Yan, Xiufeng Yang, Zuchao Huang, Ercong Nie, Zifeng Ding, Zonggen Li, Xiaowen Ma, Jinhe Bi, Kristian Kersting, Jeff Z Pan, and 1 others. 2025. Memory-r1: Enhancing large language model agents to manage and utilize memories via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.19828 .An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, and 1 others. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 .Yanwei Yue, Guibin Zhang, Boyang Liu, Guancheng Wan, Kun Wang, Dawei Cheng, and Yiyan Qi. 2025. Masrouter: Learning to route llms for multi-agent systems. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) .Shaokun Zhang, Ming Yin, Jieyu Zhang, Jiale Liu, Zhiguang Han, Jingyang Zhang, Beibin Li, Chi Wang, Huazheng Wang, Yiran Chen, and 1 others. 2025a. Which agent causes task failures and when? on automated failure attribution of llm multi-agent systems. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning .Zeyu Zhang, Quanyu Dai, Xiaohe Bo, Chen Ma, Rui Li, Xu Chen, Jieming Zhu, Zhenhua Dong, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2025b. A survey on the memory mechanism of large language model-based agents. ACM Transac-tions on Information Systems .Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qiqi Gao, He Ye, and Yanlin Wang. 2024. Memorybank: Enhancing large language models with long-term memory. In Pro-ceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelli-gence .A Organization 

The appendix contains the following sections: • More implementation details are provided in Section B. • Graph construction details are provided in Sec-tion C. • Case studies are provided in Section D. • Prompt templates are provided in Section E. 

B More Implementation Details 

This section documents the concrete decision rules used in our implementation so that AdaMem’s gains can be attributed to its retrieval design rather than to hidden prompt engineering or benchmark-specific tuning. Unless otherwise stated, the bench-mark settings below are fixed before evaluation and reused across runs. The repository also contains looser demo defaults for interactive examples; the paper numbers should therefore be interpreted with the benchmark configuration rather than the demo configuration. 

B.1 Target Participant Resolution 

AdaMem uses a lightweight four-way target re-solver. If a question explicitly mentions the user name, the target is the user; if it explicitly mentions the assistant name, the target is the assistant; if it mentions both names, the target is both ; otherwise the target is ambiguous . For both and ambiguous ,the system does not force an early commitment. In-stead, it performs a small retrieval on both partici-pant bundles and merges the candidates before final reranking. In graph retrieval, owner-aware filtering is applied only when the target is unambiguous. We do not use a separately trained target-participant classifier. 

B.2 Route Planning and Graph Expansion 

The route planner first applies deterministic cue detection: • temporal cues: “when”, “date”, “year”, “month”, “time”, “last”, “ago”, “before”, “af-ter”; • relation cues: “why”, “because”, “cause”, “how”, “relationship”, “connect”, “between”; • attribute cues: “prefer”, “like”, “favorite”, “personality”, “trait”, “attribute”; • single-hop cues: “who”, “what”, “where”, “which”, “name”, “did”, “does”, “is”, “was”. Temporal or relation cues enable graph retrieval, while single-hop questions without temporal or re-lation cues are kept on semantic retrieval when-ever possible. In the hybrid setting, the rule-based plan is refined by an LLM only when the rule con-fidence is below a fixed threshold of 0.75. The refiner can update use_graph , graph seed count, hop depth, and fusion weights, but its outputs are clipped to narrow intervals to keep the planner con-servative and to avoid unconstrained benchmark-specific adaptation. 

B.3 Working Memory, Consolidation, and Context Reactivation 

Each participant maintains a FIFO working-memory queue with capacity Cw = 20 . When the queue reaches capacity, AdaMem pops the oldest contiguous segment of r = 5 messages and sends that segment to episodic-memory consolidation. This segment is selected purely by recency order; no query-aware filtering is used at write time. Dur-ing retrieval, fact-based context reactivation uses a score-drop heuristic rather than a fixed context window: ranked fact matches are scanned in order, and supporting context is reactivated until the first adjacent score drop exceeds τdrop = 0 .1.

B.4 Topic Clustering and Persona Refresh 

We compute memory embeddings with 

all-MiniLM-L6-v2 (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). For both event/topic keys and attribute keys, AdaMem computes pairwise similarities, keeps only each key’s most similar neighbor, and takes the connected components of this sparse similarity graph as merge clusters. Thus, clustering is sparse and threshold-free rather than based on a manually tuned similarity cutoff. Each event cluster is then passed to a topic-merge prompt that produces grouped topic memories, and the resulting grouped topics are further summarized into preference-oriented persona descriptors. Attribute clusters are merged into aspect-based persona summaries by a separate prompt. 

B.5 Graph Propagation Priors 

At indexing time, different edges receive fixed write-time strengths: message–topic mentions 

uses 0.75, message–fact supports uses 0.85, fact–event supports uses 0.80, message–attribute Table 6: Default retrieval-time edge priors. 

Edge type Weight 

mentions 0.75 

supports 0.90 

same_topic 0.55 

temporal_next 0.70 

speaker_related 0.60 

> Table 7: Default fusion prior in the benchmark configu-ration.

Weight Value 

α semantic rank 0.7 

β graph rank 0.1 

γ recency 0.1 

δ fact confidence 0.1 

supports uses 0.80, same-speaker temporal edges use 0.90 forward and 0.45 backward, global tem-poral edges use 0.70 forward and 0.35 backward, and speaker_related uses 0.65. At retrieval time, graph propagation uses the priors in Table 6. The planner can modestly increase the temporal prior for temporal questions and the speaker-related prior for attribute-heavy questions. Multi-hop propaga-tion also uses a fixed hop-decay factor λ = 0 .85 .

B.6 Fusion Score Components and Weights 

The four fusion terms in Eq. (3) are implemented as simple rank- and heuristic-based priors rather than learned scorers: 

sbase (m, q ) = 11 + rank base (m) ,sgraph (m, q ) = 11 + rank graph (m) .

(4) The recency term decreases linearly over the merged candidate list, and the factual term assigns a high bonus to messages already supported by base-line fact retrieval and a small residual bonus other-wise. For the benchmark configuration used in the released evaluation script, the default fusion prior is shown in Table 7. These values are fixed before evaluation rather than fit from supervision. The optional route refiner may adjust them per question, but only within clipped ranges: α ∈ [0 .90 , 1.00] ,

β ∈ [0 , 0.08] , γ ∈ [0 , 0.03] , and δ ∈ [0 , 0.03] .

> Table 8: Representative released benchmark defaults.

Setting Value 

Working-memory capacity Cw 20 Consolidation segment length r 5Baseline retrieval top-K 10 Fact reactivation threshold τdrop 0.1 Base graph hop depth 1Base graph seed count 2

B.7 Representative Benchmark Defaults 

Table 8 summarizes the main released retrieval de-faults that are hidden behind the implementation in the public code. The number of Research Agent iterations is configured separately as an experimen-tal variable and is therefore not treated as an im-mutable retrieval default here. 

C Graph Construction Details 

This appendix section clarifies how AdaMem builds and retrieves from graph memory. Impor-tantly, the graph is not produced by a standalone LLM graph-extraction prompt. Instead, each ut-terance is first converted into a normalized record containing topic, facts, attributes, summary, and auxiliary fields; graph indexing then applies deter-ministic node typing and edge-construction rules on top of this record. 

C.1 Node and Edge Rules 

For each processed utterance, AdaMem creates a 

message node storing the raw text, speaker, times-tamp, and turn index. The normalized fields create additional typed nodes: topic nodes for message topics, fact nodes for extracted factual snippets, 

attribute nodes for user- or counterpart-related attributes, and event nodes for event abstractions linked from facts or persona snapshots. We then add a small set of typed edges: • mentions : connects a message to its topic node; • supports : connects a message to extracted fact or attribute nodes and connects fact nodes to their associated event nodes; • same_topic : connects the current message to a recent message from the same speaker when both mention the same topic, capturing local topical continuity; • temporal_next : connects each message to the immediately preceding message in the di-alogue timeline and, separately, to the preced-ing message from the same speaker, providing lightweight temporal structure; • speaker_related : connects adjacent mes-sages from the same speaker to preserve speaker-specific continuity. Persona snapshots are also indexed as fact or at-tribute nodes so that long-term user descriptors remain reachable from graph retrieval. 

C.2 Graph Retrieval 

Given a question, AdaMem first selects seman-tic seed nodes and then performs bounded multi-hop expansion over typed edges. Expansion can be filtered by the inferred target referent, so that user-focused questions remain centered on user-grounded evidence while ambiguous questions can access both bundles. In the current implementation, propagation uses lightweight type-specific edge weights rather than learned graph reasoning; there-fore, the graph should be understood as a struc-tured retrieval scaffold rather than a fully learned knowledge-graph reasoner. 

D Case Studies 

We analyze one representative success case in Fig-ure 4 and one representative failure case in Figure 5 to better understand where AdaMem gains its ad-vantage and where important challenges remain. 

Why AdaMem succeeds. This case is decep-tively simple: although the answer span appears explicitly in the dialogue, the question is not a pure surface-form lookup. The system must first iden-tify that the target speaker is Caroline rather than Melanie, then isolate the event embedded inside a broader horse-related exchange, and finally map the abstract query phrase "what activity" to the concrete experience "go horseback riding with my dad." Mem0 fails because flat semantic storage is easily distracted by nearby but less relevant horse-related details (e.g., Melanie feeding a horse or showing a horse painting), and it lacks an explicit mechanism to prioritize the participant-specific ev-idence most aligned with the question. By contrast, AdaMem benefits from its participant-aware mem-ory organization and normalized message writing: the utterance can be stored as a structured event/fact 

Question: What activity did Caroline used to do with her dad? 

Conversation Excerpt:                                

> Melanie: Oliver’s hilarious! He hid his bone in my slipper once! Cute, right? Almost as silly as when I got to feed a horse a carrot. Caroline: That’s so funny! Iused to go horseback riding with my dad when I was a kid. We’d go through the fields, feeling the wind. It was so special. I’ve always had a love for horses! Melanie: Wow, that sounds great –Iagree, they’re awesome. Here’s aphoto of my horse painting I did recently.

Model Answers: 

• Mem0: No information available ✗

• AdaMem: horseback riding ✓

Reference Answer: Horseback riding  

> Figure 4: Case One (Success).

associated with Caroline, her childhood, and the father-related activity. During inference, target res-olution narrows retrieval to Caroline’s memory bun-dle, while topic-to-message recovery and relation-aware evidence aggregation restore the exact sup-porting utterance instead of only a vague semantic neighbor. The case therefore illustrates the central advantage of AdaMem: it succeeds not merely by retrieving similar text, but by preserving who said what, under which personal context, and how the event should be reconstructed for answering. 

Why AdaMem still fails. The failure case ex-poses a harder form of long-horizon reasoning that is only partially addressed by our current design. To answer correctly, the model must solve two im-plicit alignment problems: it must link the title mention “ nothing is impossible ” in the question to Melanie’s deictic expression “this book” in the dialogue, and it must further normalize the rela-tive temporal phrase “last year” into the absolute answer “2022.” If either link is missing, retrieval returns incomplete evidence and the final answer becomes ungrounded. AdaMem improves tempo-ral reasoning substantially in the aggregate, but its current pipeline still relies mainly on retrieval plan-ning, graph expansion, and lightweight temporal salience signals rather than explicit canonicaliza-tion of relative time expressions at write time. As a result, the memory may preserve a coarse fact Question: When did Melanie read the book "nothing is impossible"? 

Conversation Excerpt: 

Melanie: Wow, Caroline! You’re so inspiring for wanting to help others with their mental health. What’s pushing you to keep going forward with it? Caroline: I struggled with mental health, and the support I got was really helpful. It made me realize how important it is for others to have a support system. So, I started looking into counseling and mental health career options so I could help other people on their own journeys like I was helped. Melanie: Caroline, so glad you got the support! Your experience really brought you to where you need to be. You’re gonna make a huge difference! This book I read last year reminds me to always pursue my dreams, just like you are doing! Caroline: Thanks so much, Mel! Seeing this pic just made me appreciate my love of reading even more. Books guide me, motivate me and help me discover who I am. They’re a huge part of my journey, and this one’s reminding me to keep going and never give up! 

Model Answers: 

• Mem0: No evidence in memories ✗

• AdaMem: No evidence available ✗

Reference Answer: 2022 

Figure 5: Case Two (Failure). 

such as Melanie having read an inspiring book “last year,” yet fail to store a stable symbolic binding be-tween the book title and the absolute year required by the question. Once that canonical link is absent from memory, the Research Agent cannot recover it through additional search alone, and the Working Agent correctly defaults to abstention. This exam-ple suggests that the next bottleneck for AdaMem is not broad evidence coverage, but finer-grained tem-poral grounding and implicit entity linking, which is also consistent with the limitations discussed in the Limitations section. 

E Prompt Templates 

We provide the most representative prompt tem-plates used in AdaMem. 

E.1 Message Understanding Prompt Role. This prompt is the entry point of the Mem-ory Agent. It converts each incoming utterance into a normalized memory record with topic, atti-tude, reason, facts, attributes, and a short summary, which is then written into working memory and used by downstream memory update modules. 

Content. 

Perform topic tagging on this message from user. Requirements: 1. Identify one primary topic/event in the message. ,→

2. Infer the author 's attitude toward the event. 3. Infer the reason behind the attitude. 4. Extract facts or events revealed by the message. ,→

5. Extract user attributes revealed by the message. ,→

6. Produce a one-sentence summary and a brief rationale. ,→

Return JSON: {"text": "original message", "tags": { "topic": ["..."], "attitude": ["Positive|Negative|Mixed"], "reason": ["..."], "facts": ["..."], "attributes": ["..."] }, "summary": "...", "rationale": "..." }Message: "{message}" 

E.2 Episodic Memory Router Prompts Role. After message understanding, AdaMem uses three router prompts to update long-term episodic memory for events/topics , facts , and at-tributes . These prompts determine whether a new memory item should be added, used to update an existing record, or ignored as redundant. 

Content. 

You are a user profile updater that maintains a dictionary of existing ,→

memory items. For each new message-derived item, analyze whether to update ,→

the profile and respond in JSON format. Input: - Profile: existing topics / facts / attributes - Message: a new structured item extracted from the latest utterance ,→

Processing: - Compare the new item with existing entries semantically. ,→

- Choose one action: * UPDATE: a contradictory or revised entry already exists ,→

* ADD: the item is new * IGNORE: an equivalent entry already exists - If there is no matched target, return "None". Return JSON: {"Action": "[UPDATE|ADD|IGNORE]", "Target": "matched entry or 'None '"}

E.3 Topic Merge Prompt Role. This prompt groups multiple fine-grained event topics into higher-level topic-centric memo-ries. It is important for compressing long interac-tion histories into reusable themes without discard-ing event semantics. 

Content. 

Given a group of topics extracted from users '

messages, analyze whether ,→

these topics can be logically grouped under common themes. ,→

Rules: 1. Only merge topics that talk about the same underlying event/theme. ,→

2. Preserve the original meaning and context of each topic. ,→

3. Extract as many common details as possible when naming the merged topic. ,→

4. Do not reveal the user 's attitude in the merged topic name. ,→

5. Keep distinct concepts separate. Input: {"topic1": "summary sentence 1", "topic2": "summary sentence 2", ... }Return JSON: {"Grouped Topics": { "NewTopicName1": ["original_topic1", "original_topic2"], ,→

"NewTopicName2": ["original_topic3"] }, "Grouping Rationale": "Explanation of the grouping" ,→

}

E.4 Route Refinement Prompt Role. This prompt is used by the optional route refiner after the rule-based planner proposes an initial retrieval plan. Its purpose is not to freely redesign the retrieval pipeline, but to make a con-servative adjustment to graph usage, hop depth, seed count, and fusion weights while avoiding un-necessary graph expansion for simple questions. 

Content. 

Refine a memory retrieval route plan for precise QA. ,→

Prefer exact extraction for single-hop/temporal questions and avoid ,→

unnecessary graph expansion. Question: {question} Current plan JSON: {current_plan} Return only JSON with keys: {"use_graph": true/false, "use_baseline": true/false, "graph_topn": integer, "hop_k": integer, "fusion_alpha": number, "fusion_beta": number, "fusion_gamma": number, "fusion_delta": number, "confidence": number }

E.5 Research Integration and Reflection Prompts Role. These prompts implement the core loop of the Research Agent. The integration prompt merges newly retrieved evidence into a consol-idated working summary, while the reflection prompts judge whether the current summary is suf-ficient and, if not, generate follow-up retrieval re-quests. 

Content. 

[Integrate Prompt] You are the IntegrateAgent. Merge newly retrieved evidence with the current ,→

working notes to produce a consolidated factual summary relevant to the ,→

QUESTION. QUESTION: {question} EVIDENCE: {evidence} CURRENT RESULT: {current_result} Instructions: 1. Keep useful, on-topic information from CURRENT RESULT. ,→

2. Add new, relevant, well-supported facts from EVIDENCE. ,→

3. Remove off-topic content. 4. Prefer concrete details such as entities, dates, numbers, and events. ,→

5. Resolve contradictions by preferring more specific or more recent evidence. ,→

6. Use timestamps when answering temporal questions. ,→

Return JSON: {"content": "merged factual summary", "sources": ["source-1", "source-2", ...] }[Info Check Prompt] You are the InfoCheckAgent. Judge whether the collected information is ,→

sufficient to answer the QUESTION. QUESTION: {question} RESULT: {result} Return JSON: {"enough": true | false }[Follow-up Request Prompt] You are the FollowUpRequestAgent. Generate focused follow-up retrieval ,→

queries for the missing information. QUESTION: {question} RESULT: {result} Instructions: 1. Identify what is still missing. 2. Generate 1-3 targeted retrieval queries. 3. Mention concrete entities or events whenever possible. ,→

Return JSON: {"new_requests": ["query-1", "query-2", ...] }

E.6 Working Agent Answer Prompt Role. This prompt is used by the Working Agent to convert the research summary into the final answer. It explicitly encourages concise, entity-centric responses and injects additional persona attributes or factual snippets when available. 

Content. 

[System Prompt] You are role-playing as {speaker_b} in a conversation with {speaker_a}. ,→

Your task is to answer questions about {speaker_a} or {speaker_b} in an ,→

extremely concise manner based on the provided research summary. ,→

Any content referring to 'User ' refers to {speaker_a}. ,→

Answer as concisely as possible and try to deduce clear answers rather than ,→

return vague statements. [User Prompt] <RESEARCH SUMMARY> {research_summary} {extra_context} The question is: {question} Please only provide the content of the answer. For date questions, use a specific format such as "15 July 2023" whenever ,→

possible. For duration questions, answer in years, months, or days. ,→

Generate answers primarily composed of concrete entities. ,→