Title: SPD-RAG: Sub-Agent Per Document Retrieval-Augmented Generation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.08329v1

Published Time: Tue, 10 Mar 2026 02:16:16 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
# SPD-RAG: Sub-Agent Per Document Retrieval-Augmented Generation 

Yagiz Can Akay 1 Muhammed Yusuf Kartal 1 Esra Alparslan 1

Faruk Ortakoyluoglu 1 Arda Akpinar 2

> 1

TOBB University of Economics and Technology 2OSTIM Technical University 

{y.akay, m.kartal, ealparslan, fortakoyluoglu}@etu.edu.tr 230206003@ostimteknik.edu.tr 

Abstract 

Answering complex, real-world queries often requires synthesizing facts scattered across vast document corpora. In these settings, stan-dard retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) pipelines suffer from incomplete evidence cov-erage, while long-context large language mod-els (LLMs) struggle to reason reliably over massive inputs. We introduce SPD-RAG, a hierarchical multi-agent framework for exhaus-tive cross-document question answering that de-composes the problem along the document axis. Each document is processed by a dedicated document-level agent operating only on its own content, enabling focused retrieval, while a co-ordinator dispatches tasks to relevant agents and aggregates their partial answers. Agent outputs are synthesized by merging partial an-swers through a token-bounded synthesis layer (which supports recursive map-reduce for mas-sive corpora). This document-level specializa-tion with centralized fusion improves scalabil-ity and answer quality in heterogeneous multi-document settings while yielding a modular, extensible retrieval pipeline. On the LOONG benchmark (EMNLP 2024) for long-context multi-document QA, SPD-RAG achieves an Avg Score of 58.1 (GPT-5 evaluation), outper-forming Normal RAG (33.0) and Agentic RAG (32.8) while using only 38% of the API cost of a full-context baseline (68.0). 

1 Introduction 

Large language models (LLMs) and the agentic systems built around them are increasingly used for complex information search tasks (Guo et al., 2024). Real-world questions often require synthe-sizing evidence scattered across many documents, such as assessing a company’s financial risks across years of reports or integrating findings from mul-tiple scientific papers. 1 Such questions are natural 

> 1Examples inspired by scenarios in the Loong bench-mark (Wang et al., 2024a).

and common, yet expose critical coverage and rea-soning bottlenecks in current NLP systems. Traditional single-index or single-agent retrieval systems struggle to maintain both scalability and contextual relevance over large, heterogeneous cor-pora, especially for long or structurally complex documents. Standard RAG pipelines retrieve a fixed number of documents K and process them within a single context window (Lewis et al., 2020), which fails when answers depend on information distributed across many documents, since evidence beyond the top-K results is typically discarded in a single retrieval pass. Long-context LLMs ex-tend context windows to 128K–2M tokens (Gemini Team et al., 2024), but empirical evidence shows that reasoning quality degrades significantly as con-text length increases (Liu et al., 2023). This sug-gests that the bottleneck is not only retrieval, but also reasoning at scale over many documents and hundreds of thousands of tokens. In this work, we introduce SPD-RAG (Sub-agent per Document Retrieval-Augmented Generation), a hierarchical multi-agent architecture for exhaustive multi-document question answering that factors the problem along the document axis rather than the task axis. Instead of forcing a single model to hunt through a massive global index, SPD-RAG uses a central coordinator to decompose the user’s query into shared instruc-tions. It then deploys a dedicated, cost-efficient sub-agent to each document in the corpus. These agents operate entirely in parallel, treating their assigned documents as isolated retrieval universes to extract relevant findings. Finally, a synthesis model aggregates these document-grounded findings—employing a recursive merging fallback for exceptionally large corpora—to construct a comprehensive, final answer. Our codebase and datasets used in this paper can be found at 

https://github.com/NebulAICompany/ SPD-RAG .

> arXiv:2603.08329v1 [cs.CL] 9 Mar 2026

Our contributions are as follows: • We propose SPD-RAG, a hierarchical multi-agent framework that combines per-document agentic RAG with a centralized synthesis layer, where cost-efficient document agents are coordinated by a smarter coordinator agent, enabling document-level specialization and parallel execution while allowing each document to be analyzed in depth to ensure that all relevant information is incorporated without missing critical evidence. • We evaluate on the Loong benchmark (Wang et al., 2024a), which includes multi-document QA instances over financial reports and aca-demic papers with an average of 11 docu-ments per instance and context lengths from 10K to beyond 250K tokens, and show that our system substantially outperforms standard RAG and Agentic RAG baselines under GPT-5-judged Avg Score (adapted from Loong’s GPT-4-judged protocol; see §4.3), with gains of around +25 points (76% higher average score) compared to Normal RAG and Agentic RAG baselines. • We analyze ablations, document type and task complexity effects, and cost–quality tradeoffs, showing that SPD-RAG attains over 85% of full-context baseline quality at roughly 38% of the API cost. 

2 Related Work 

2.1 LLM-Based Multi-Agent Systems 

LLM-based multi-agent systems are increasingly used for complex task solving. Guo et al. (2024) provide a comprehensive survey of agent profiles, communication protocols, and collaboration strate-gies. Hierarchical architectures such as MegaA-gent (Wang et al., 2024b), which demonstrates au-tonomous cooperation among up to 590 agents via multi-level task decomposition, and AgentOrches-tra (Zhang et al., 2025), which achieves state-of-the-art performance on GAIA using a central planning agent and specialized sub-agents, exemplify this trend. Scaling laws for multi-agent systems offer quan-titative guidance for architecture design. Kim et al. (2025) evaluate 180 configurations across five ar-chitectures, finding that centralized coordination yields an 80.9% improvement on parallelizable tasks, but that multi-agent overhead grows superlin-early. Their result that independent agents amplify errors by 17.2 × compared to 4.4 × for centralized systems directly motivates our coordinator-based design. The taxonomy of hierarchical multi-agent systems by Moore (2025) further classifies design patterns along five axes: control hierarchy, informa-tion flow, role delegation, temporal layering, and communication structure. 

2.2 Long Document and Multi-Document QA 

Long documents that exceed LLM context win-dows are often handled via divide-and-conquer strategies. LLM ×MapReduce (Zhou et al., 2025) formalizes two key challenges: inter-chunk depen-dency (one chunk depends on context from another) and inter-chunk conflict (chunks provide contradic-tory information), and proposes structured informa-tion protocols and in-context confidence calibration to mitigate them. ToM (Guo et al., 2025) extends this approach with a hierarchical DocTree repre-sentation for recursive reasoning. For multi-document QA, LongAgent (Zhao et al., 2024) splits a 128K-token document into chunks assigned to member agents, with a leader agent orchestrating discussions and inter-member com-munication to reduce hallucinations. However, LongAgent targets a single long document rather than multiple independent documents that may con-flict. DocAgent (Sun et al., 2025) uses a multi-agent framework that mimics human reading via a tree-structured outline and reviewer agent, while MDocAgent (Han et al., 2025) employs five spe-cialized agents for multi-modal document under-standing. 

2.3 Hierarchical and Recursive Summarization 

Our hierarchical merging mechanism builds on tree-based retrieval and recursive summarization. RAP-TOR (Sarthi et al., 2024) recursively embeds, clus-ters, and summarizes text chunks to construct a bottom-up tree with multiple abstraction levels; re-trieving from the appropriate level yields a 20% ab-solute accuracy gain on QuALITY. Ou and Lapata (2025) show that hierarchical merging can amplify hallucinations during recursive summarization and propose context-aware augmentation strategies that replace intermediate summaries with relevant input context, which we adopt in our merging protocol. 2.4 Graph-Based Document Analysis 

Graph-based document analysis is particu-larly effective for global sensemaking queries. GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024) constructs a knowl-edge graph of entities and relations from source documents and applies hierarchical community detection (e.g., the Leiden algorithm (Traag et al., 2019)) to obtain multi-level communities with textual summaries. At query time, it retrieves relevant communities, elicits community-level partial answers, and aggregates them via amap–reduce–style procedure. A survey on LLM-empowered knowledge graph construction (Bian, 2025) highlights how LLMs are reshaping the classical knowledge graph pipeline across three key stages: ontology engineering, knowledge extraction, and knowledge fusion. Our work is complementary: instead of inducing an explicit knowledge graph, SPD-RAG operates directly over agent-produced textual summaries and performs similarity-guided recursive synthesis across many documents. 

2.5 Benchmarks for Multi-Document Reasoning 

The Loong benchmark (Wang et al., 2024a) evaluates long-context LLMs on extended multi-document QA where every document is relevant ("Leave No Document Behind") across financial, legal, and academic domains in English and Chi-nese. It spans four task types with context lengths from 10K to over 250K tokens, and even strong frontier models achieve only modest Avg Scores and medium perfect-answer rates, underscoring the difficulty of reasoning over many long, all-relevant documents. Complementary datasets probe other aspects of multi-document reasoning. MoNaCo (Wolfson et al., 2025) focuses on natural questions over dozens of Wikipedia pages, MEBench (Lin et al., 2025) on high-entity-density QA, FanOutQA (Zhu et al., 2024) on multi-hop questions with long cross-document evidence chains, and HoloBench (Maekawa et al., 2024) on database-style aggregation over unstructured text. Taken together, these benchmarks show that scalable multi-document reasoning remains an open challenge, with Loong emphasizing the especially demanding all-relevant, long-context regime. 

3 Methodology 

Figure 1 presents an overview of the SPD-RAG architecture. The system processes a query through three layers: the Coordination Layer (§3.1), the Parallel Retrieval Layer (§3.2), and the Synthesis Layer (§3.3). 

3.1 Coordination Layer 

Given a query q and corpus D, the system first processes the query through a coordinator agent. The coordinator’s role is to decompose the user query into a Shared Instruction Set for Docu-ments and Synthesis Directives . It generates a 

WriteTodos structured object containing (a) a list of sub_agent_todos : atomic, self-contained ex-traction tasks specifying exactly what fields, en-tities, or numeric values to extract (the shared in-structions); and (b) a synthesis_directive (2–4 sentences) instructing the downstream Synthesis Layer on how to prioritize and structure the merged response. 

3.2 Parallel Retrieval Layer 

We assign a dedicated sub-agent αi to each docu-ment di in the corpus. Each sub-agent operates as an independent RAG loop over its assigned docu-ment, guided by the shared instruction set from the Coordination Layer. 

Document-Scoped Retrieval and Reasoning. 

Each document di serves as an isolated retrieval universe; the assigned sub-agent is strictly con-strained to search tool calls within di, preventing cross-document distractor chunks from degrading local extraction. Each sub-agent receives the original query q, its assigned document name, and the shared instruction set (todo list), then operates in an iterative retrieve-and-reason loop. On each turn, the agent either issues a search action (a focused query string) or a finalize action that terminates the loop and emits the document-grounded findings. The sub-agent prompt instructs the agent to attempt at least 2 focused searches before concluding a piece of information is absent, with a total cap of 5 search calls across all tasks. Each search action triggers dense vector retrieval over the sub-agent’s dedicated per-document Qdrant index. This retrieval uses Co-here embed-v4.0 embeddings (1536-dimensional, cosine similarity) to fetch the top k = 15 most similar chunks. These chunks are then re-ranked by Cohere rerank-v4.0-fast to yield a final set Figure 1: Overview of SPD-RAG Architecture. 

of top_n = 5 chunks per search. The documents are split into chunks offline using LangChain’s 

RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter in Mark-down mode with a chunk size of 1000 tokens and 250-token overlap. 

Findings Output. We denote the findings of each sub-agent as 

oi = αi(q, d i) = ⟨si, r i⟩ (1) where si is the natural language findings re-port from di and ri ∈ [0 , 1] is a scalar rele-vance/confidence score. These outputs are passed to the Synthesis Layer. 

Parallelism. All RAG loops for the docu-ments are dispatched concurrently via Lang-Graph’s Send API fan-out, which emits one 

Send("document_sub_agent_node", ...) per document and executes all targets in parallel within LangGraph’s async runtime. 

3.3 Synthesis Layer 

While modern LLMs feature extensive context win-dows, synthesizing hundreds of document reports can still exceed these limits or cause ’lost in the middle’ degradation. To future-proof the architec-ture for massive corpora, the Synthesis Layer is designed as a dynamic map-reduce pipeline that ag-gregates findings recursively. The Synthesis Layer receives the synthesis directives from the Coor-dination Layer and the findings {o1, o 2, . . . , o n}

from the Parallel Retrieval Layer. It aggregates and synthesizes the findings recursively through a similarity-ordered process until the total findings size falls within the target context size to produce the final output. 

Similarity-Ordered Merge & Synthesis. 

In iteration t, we maintain a set of find-ings/summaries S(t) = {s(t)1 , . . . , s (t) 

> n

}. We embed each summary using Cohere embed-v4.0 

and compute a cosine-similarity matrix via 

sklearn.metrics.pairwise.cosine_similarity .This is converted to a distance matrix 

Dij = 1 − cos( s(t) 

> i

, s (t) 

> j

), which is passed to 

AgglomerativeClustering with n_clusters=1 ,

linkage="average" (UPGMA), producing acomplete dendrogram over all current summaries. We traverse the merge tree bottom-up, greedily accumulating nodes into a batch as long as the total tiktoken count does not exceed the target budget of B = 750 ,000 tokens. Semantically similar summaries are grouped first, so each batch contains the most similar available summaries within the token limit. 

Aggregate and Synthesize Findings. For each batch, an LLM is prompted with the concatenated findings, the synthesis directive, and the original query q to produce an aggregated and synthesized summary. All batch synthesis calls within an itera-tion are issued concurrently via asyncio.gather .The merged summaries form the input for the next iteration S(t+1) . The same S YNTHESIS prompt used at every level of the merging tree is ap-plied even at the final level—there is no separate synthesis-only prompt. 

Context Size Condition and Output. The layer evaluates whether the total findings size exceeds the context size threshold (i.e., |S (t+1) | > 1). If the condition is true, the process loops back to the similarity-ordered merge and synthesis step. If the Algorithm 1 Recursive Synthesis 

Require: Findings S = {s1, . . . , s n}, query q,synthesis directive d, context size budget B

Ensure: Final Output s⋆ 

> 1:

while |S| > 1 do  

> 2:

E ← COHERE EMBED (S) 

> 3:

D ← 1 − COSINE SIMILARITY (E) 

> 4:

tree ← AGGLOMERATIVE CLUSTER (

D, linkage = “average” ) 

> 5:

batches ← GROUP BYTOKENS (

S, tree , B ) 

> 6:

if |batches | ≥ |S| then  

> 7:

batches ← [S] 

> 8:

end if  

> 9:

S ← ASYNC GATHER (

SYNTHESIZE (b, q, d ) ∀b ∈ batches ) 

> 10:

end while  

> 11:

return S[0] 

condition is false (the total findings size is within the context size, leaving a single final summary s⋆), the process terminates and yields s⋆ as the final output. If |S (t+1) | ≥ |S (t)| (no-progress case), the entire current level is forced into a single batch to guarantee termination. Algorithm 1 gives the pseudocode for the general recursive synthesis procedure. 

Behavior on Loong. In practice, with Gemini 2.5 Pro’s 1M-token context window and a budget of 

B = 750 ,000 tokens, the combined sub-agent find-ings for all instances in our Loong evaluation set fit within a single batch, so the conditional check al-lowed output after one iteration. The recursive loop is therefore a design capability intended for much larger corpora, where total findings size genuinely exceeds the context size. 

4 Experimental Setup 

4.1 Dataset 

We evaluate SPD-RAG on the Loong benchmark (Wang et al., 2024a). Loong is an extended multi-document QA instances in both English and Chi-nese, with an average of 11 documents per test case spanning two real-world scenarios: financial reports and academic papers. Each test case is constructed so that every document is relevant to the final answer ("Leave No Document Behind", meaning a correct response requires synthesizing evidence from all provided documents), and is an-notated under one of four task types: Spotlight Locating, Comparison, Clustering, or Chain of Reasoning, with context lengths ranging from 10K to beyond 250K tokens. We evaluate on the En-glish and Set 4 (200k-250k tokens) portion of the benchmark only. Our evaluation set comprises 40 instances involving academic papers and 62 involv-ing financial reports (102 instances total), with the four task types distributed as: Spotlight Locating (27), Comparison (15), Clustering (49), and Chain of Reasoning (11). 

4.2 Baselines 

We compare against the following systems, all backed by Gemini 2.5 Pro: • Baseline (Full Context) : All documents for each instance are concatenated and provided directly in the context window of Gemini 2.5 Pro, representing the oracle long-context up-per bound. • Normal RAG : Standard vector search top-K

retrieval over the full document corpus, fol-lowed by LLM reasoning over the retrieved chunks. • Agentic RAG : A single-agent ReAct-style RAG system (implemented via Lang-Graph/LangChain) that can issue multiple iterative retrieval calls over the full global corpus. It uses the same embedding and re-ranking pipeline as SPD-RAG, but lacks per-document specialization. 

4.3 Evaluation Metrics 

We report the following metrics, following the Loong evaluation protocol (Wang et al., 2024a): • Avg Score : An LLM-judged score (0–100) measuring the degree to which the predicted answer accurately covers the gold answer, following the evaluation protocol of Loong (Wang et al., 2024a). 2

• Perfect Rate (PR%) : Percentage of queries where the system receives a perfect score of 100.  

> 2Because the original legacy GPT-4 model API is unavail-able for new scaled evaluations, we adopt GPT-5 as the eval-uator. Recent literature increasingly adopts GPT-5 as the standard for LLM-as-a-judge protocols due to its superior alignment with human grading (Wolfson et al., 2025). While our baseline numbers are re-computed under this GPT-5 judge for strict fairness, raw scores may not be perfectly 1-to-1 com-parable with the originally published Loong leaderboard.

• Avg Token Usage : Mean per-query total (in-put + output) token usage. • Avg Cost (USD) : Mean per-query API cost, enabling cost-efficiency comparisons. • Avg Latency (s) : Mean per-query wall-clock time. 

4.4 Implementation Details 

All systems use Gemini 2.5 Pro (temperature 0.0) as the backbone LLM for the coordinator, merging layer, and synthesis layer. SPD-RAG document sub-agents use Gemini 2.5 Flash for document-scoped retrieval, reducing per-document cost while preserving reasoning quality at the merging and synthesis stages. GPT-5 is used exclusively as the LLM judge for the evaluation of the Avg score and is not part of the pipeline itself. Prompts for all systems, including baselines, were optimized for information extraction and synthesis to ensure fair comparison. Full prompt templates for all systems are provided in the code repository. 

Indexing. Each document is pre-indexed into a dedicated Qdrant vec-tor collection using LangChain’s 

RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter (Imple-mentation details are provided in the Appendix.). 

Retrieval per sub-agent. Each search tool call performs dense vector retrieval over the docu-ment index, returning the top-K (k = 15 ) chunks using cosine similarity in Qdrant. These can-didates are subsequently re-ranked with Cohere 

rerank-v4.0-fast , and the top top_n = 5 chunks are passed to the sub-agent LLM. 

Merging layer. The token budget per merge batch is B = 750 ,000 tokens (75% of Gemini 2.5 Pro’s 1M context cap). Agglomerative clustering uses sklearn with UPGMA linkage and precom-puted cosine-distance matrix. 

Parallelism. Document agents run concurrently via LangGraph Send API fan-out. Batch synthe-sis calls within each merge iteration are paral-lelized with asyncio.gather . Synchronous Co-here API calls are offloaded to the thread pool via 

asyncio.to_thread .

Safety limits. Each document sub-agent’s iter-ative retrieval loop is capped at 5 iterations; the Agentic RAG baseline caps at 10 iterations. 

Cost tracking. Per-query costs are computed from LangSmith run metadata (total token counts 

× per-token pricing. 

5 Results 

5.1 Main Results 

Table 1 reports the main results across all systems on our Loong evaluation set. Figure 2 illustrates these performance differences across the four spe-cific task types. SPD-RAG achieves an Avg Score of 58.1, sub-stantially outperforming both Normal RAG (33.0) and Agentic RAG (32.8). This corresponds to roughly a 25-point absolute improvement (about 76% relative gain) over standard RAG baselines. Furthermore, SPD-RAG more than doubles the Perfect Rate (PR) of Agentic RAG (18.6% vs. 8.8%), indicating that exhaustive document-level processing more frequently captures the complete set of required facts. Notably, the Agentic RAG baseline, despite consuming ∼3× more tokens than Normal RAG, does not yield score improvements, suggesting that uninstructed iterative retrieval with-out per-document specialization does not effec-tively address the coverage challenge in exhaustive multi-document settings. While the full-context baseline attains the highest quality with an Avg Score of 68.0, SPD-RAG reaches 85.4% of this performance while consuming only 37.9% of the API cost, demonstrating a highly favorable cost-quality trade-off. The full-context baseline pro-vides a strong upper bound that benefits from all documents in one pass. Despite this, SPD-RAG narrows the gap to 9.9 points while costing less. 

5.2 Analysis by Task Type 

Table 2 breaks down performance by Loong’s four task types. The task-type breakdown reveals a clear pattern. For Spotlight Locating—which requires finding a single salient fact across documents—all RAG-based systems perform reasonably well (69–74), while the full-context baseline leads (86.6). The largest gaps between SPD-RAG and the RAG baselines appear in Clustering (+40.5 pts over Nor-mal RAG) and Chain of Reasoning (+26.2 pts over Agentic RAG), tasks that require aggregating or reasoning over evidence from many documents si-multaneously. On the other hand, it nearly matches the full-context baseline (42.2 vs. 42.7) on Com-parison tasks. System Avg Score PR (%) Avg Input Tok Avg Total Tok Avg Cost ($) Avg Latency (s)                         

> Oracle Long-Context Baseline
> Baseline (Full Context) 68.0 31.4 253,085 255,345 0.273 45.6
> RAG Baselines
> Normal RAG 33.0 13.7 22,174 27,430 0.080 42.6 Agentic RAG 32.8 8.8 81,877 85,290 0.098 40.6
> Our System
> SPD-RAG 58.1 18.6 193,954 205,683 0.103 54.8

Table 1: Main results on our Loong evaluation set (102 instances: 40 academic paper, 62 financial report). Bold :best overall. Underline: best among RAG-based systems. 

Figure 2: Comparison of Average Score across the four systems, broken down by task type (Spotlight Locating, Comparison, Clustering, and Chain of Reasoning). 

5.3 Analysis by Document Domain 

As shown in Table 3 and Figure 3 the domain breakdown exposes a striking failure mode of stan-dard RAG: both Normal RAG and Agentic RAG achieve 0% PR on academic paper instances (Avg Scores of 15.2 and 16.8, respectively). Academic paper instances in Loong tend to involve long, tech-nical documents with distributed evidence, making top-K retrieval especially susceptible to coverage failures. SPD-RAG dramatically recovers on this domain (60.0 Avg Score), closing most of the gap with the full-context baseline (78.8). On finan-cial report instances—which tend to be shorter and more structured—all RAG-based systems perform better, and the gap between SPD-RAG (56.9) and the baseline (61.0) is smaller. 

Figure 3: Average score by document domain compar-ing the Baseline (Full Context), Normal RAG, Agentic RAG, and SPD-RAG systems. System Spotlight Loc. Comparison Clustering Chain of Reasoning                                

> (n= 27 )(n= 15 )(n= 49 )(n= 11 )Baseline (Full Context) 86.6 /55.6% 42.7 /26.7% 67.1 /14.3% 60.9 /54.5%
> Normal RAG 69.7 / 37.0% 37.7 / 26.7% 15.4 / 0.0% 14.8 / 0.0% Agentic RAG 73.4 / 22.2% 23.3 / 20.0% 16.7 / 0.0% 17.9 / 0.0% SPD-RAG 74.2 / 44.4% 42.2 / 20.0% 57.2 / 4.1% 44.1 / 18.2%

Table 2: Avg Score / PR(%) by Loong task type. Each cell shows Avg Score / PR% .                

> System Paper (n= 40 )Financial (n= 62 )Baseline 78.8 / 30.0% 61.0 / 32.3% Normal RAG 15.2 / 0.0% 44.5 / 22.6% Agentic RAG 16.8 / 0.0% 43.1 / 14.5% SPD-RAG 60.0 / 7.5% 56.9 / 25.8%

Table 3: Avg Score / PR(%) by document domain.                

> System Avg Score Avg Cost ($) Score / $
> Baseline 68.0 0.273 249.1 Normal RAG 33.0 0.080 412.5 Agentic RAG 32.8 0.098 334.7 SPD-RAG 58.1 0.103 564.1

Table 4: Cost–quality tradeoff. 

5.4 Cost–Quality Tradeoff 

Figure 4: Cost–Quality tradeoff. The scatter plot illus-trates the Pareto frontier for multi-document QA. 

SPD-RAG outperforms the RAG baselines in the cost–quality trade-off. It achieves a 76% higher average score than Normal RAG (58.1 vs. 33.0) while increasing the per-query cost by only $0.023 (Table 4). In contrast, Agentic RAG is 

Pareto-dominated , as it incurs higher cost than Normal RAG ($0.098 vs. $0.080) while delivering nearly identical quality (32.8 vs. 33.0). Compared to the full-context baseline, which achieves an Avg Score of 68.0 , SPD-RAG reaches 85.4% of the quality at only 37.9% of the cost , resulting in a 

2.25 × improvement in cost–quality efficiency .Crucially, the architecture of SPD-RAG enables this cost efficiency: by constraining retrieval to isolated, single-document spaces, we can reliably offload the iterative reasoning to a cheaper model (Gemini 2.5 Flash). In contrast, global iterative baselines require the reasoning capacity of a fron-tier model (Gemini 2.5 Pro) to navigate the fully concatenated corpus, driving up costs. 

6 Discussion 

Where SPD-RAG excels. The task-type results in Table 2 confirm our core hypothesis: architec-tural decomposition along the document axis yields the largest gains precisely for tasks that require exhaustive multi-document synthesis. Clustering tasks (+40.5 over Normal RAG) and Chain of Rea-soning tasks (+26.2 over Agentic RAG) both de-mand that the system form a coherent answer from evidence distributed across all relevant documents— exactly the scenario for which per-document agents are designed. For Loong’s Comparison questions, the answer is primarily determined by reading out a small set of comparable numeric attributes from each report and aggregating them, so once docu-ment agents have extracted those fields, the syn-thesizer is effectively operating over a structured table, which helps explain why SPD-RAG’s score on Comparison tasks (42.2) nearly matches the full-context baseline (42.7). 

Remaining gap with the full-context baseline. 

Despite strong gains over RAG baselines, SPD-RAG lags the full-context baseline by 9.9 Avg Score points overall. Three factors likely con-tribute: (1) Gemini 2.5 Flash, used for document agents due to its cost efficiency, may provide weaker agentic reasoning capabilities compared to larger models. (2) The coordinator’s sub-task generation may under-specify queries for highly technical academic content, leading to incom-plete information extraction at the document-agent level. (3) The maximum context length observed in Loong queries was approximately 250k tokens— only about 25% of the 1M-token context window of Gemini 2.5 Pro—potentially limiting the pres-sure on the full-context baseline. Since SPD-RAG is designed to operate on substantially larger con-texts, its advantages may become more pronounced under more extreme long-context conditions. 

RAG baseline failure on papers. The 0% PR rate and 15.2-16.8% Avg Score of both Normal RAG and Agentic RAG on academic paper in-stances highlights a systematic failure of top-K

retrieval under dense, distributed evidence. Aca-demic papers in Loong often require synthesiz-ing facts spread across abstracts, methods, results, and appendices of multiple documents—a regime where exhaustive per-document coverage proves highly effective. The recovery by SPD-RAG to 60.0 Avg Score / 7.5% PR in this domain demon-strates the practical value of per-document special-ization. 

Latency overhead. SPD-RAG incurs a modest latency overhead (54.8 s vs. 40.6–45.6 s for the baselines), primarily due to its multi-agent archi-tecture. Although document agents run in paral-lel, end-to-end latency is still gated by the layered pipeline, which requires at least three sequential LLM calls (coordination, per-document retrieval, and synthesis) rather than a single pass. 

> Figure 5: Average per-query latency across systems.

7 Limitations and Future Work 

SPD-RAG incurs higher per-query LLM call counts than single-pass systems—one call per doc-ument agent plus a final synthesis step—which increases total token usage compared to standard RAG baselines, though it remains at roughly one-third the cost of the full-context baseline ($0.10 vs. $0.27 per query) due to the use of Gemini 2.5 Flash for document sub-agents. System quality depends on the coordinator’s ability to generate comprehen-sive sub-tasks: under-specified tasks lead to incom-plete document-level extractions, as observed on technical academic paper instances. Our evaluation is limited to two domains (academic papers and fi-nancial reports) from the Loong benchmark; legal, medical, or enterprise document corpora may have different structural characteristics that alter relative performance. The synthesis layer of SPD-RAG is designed to handle corpora where the combined sub-agent out-puts exceed the model’s context window, triggering multi-round similarity-based clustering and recur-sive synthesis. In our Loong experiments, how-ever, Gemini 2.5 Pro’s 1M-token context was suffi-cient to process all sub-agent summaries in a single merge step, so this recursive path was never acti-vated. As a result, the scalability properties of the recursive synthesis pipeline—its impact on answer quality, redundancy reduction, and cost as docu-ment counts grow into the hundreds or thousands— remain empirically unvalidated. Evaluating SPD-RAG on much larger corpora, and ideally on a new benchmark specifically targeting hundreds to thou-sands of documents per query instance, is an im-portant direction for future work that would more directly test the per-document agent design and the intended large-database regime. 

8 Conclusion 

We presented SPD-RAG, a hierarchical multi-agent framework designed for exhaustive multi-document question answering. By assigning a ded-icated agentic RAG module to each document and merging their findings through a similarity-ordered, token-bounded tree, our system effectively miti-gates the limitations of both traditional top-K re-trieval (incomplete coverage) and isolated long-context processing (degraded reasoning at scale). Experiments on the challenging Loong benchmark demonstrate that SPD-RAG achieves an average score of 58.1, outperforming Normal RAG (33.0) and Agentic RAG (32.8) by approximately 25 ab-solute points (76% higher average score), while operating at only 37.9% of the API cost of the oracle full-context baseline (68.0). These per-formance gains are most pronounced in tasks re-quiring deep cross-document synthesis—such as Clustering (+40.5 points) and Chain of Reasoning (+26.2 points)—as well as on dense academic pa-pers where standard RAG methods entirely fail. Ultimately, our findings demonstrate that for complex information-seeking queries over large corpora, how information is processed is crucial. Specifically, ensuring that each document receives exhaustive, dedicated agentic attention proves to be a more effective, cost-efficient, and scalable strat-egy than simply expanding how much raw context a single model can consume in one pass. 

9 Ethics Statement 

SPD-RAG is a retrieval-augmented generation framework intended to improve access to infor-mation distributed across large document collec-tions. The system relies on commercial LLM APIs (Gemini 2.5, Cohere), and as with any LLM-based pipeline, outputs may contain factual errors and should not be treated as authoritative without hu-man verification. The increased number of API calls per query relative to single-pass systems re-sults in higher energy consumption, a cost that should be weighed against the accuracy gains in deployment decisions. Our benchmark evaluations are conducted on publicly available datasets and involve no human subjects or personal data. Dur-ing the preparation of this manuscript, AI-assisted writing tools were used to help refine language and improve clarity. All research design, experiments, analysis, and final decisions regarding the content were conducted and verified by the authors. 

References 

Haonan Bian. 2025. LLM-empowered knowl-edge graph construction: A survey. Preprint ,arXiv:2510.20345. ArXiv:2510.20345. Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt, Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From lo-cal to global: A graph RAG approach to query-focused summarization. Preprint , arXiv:2404.16130. ArXiv:2404.16130. Gemini Team, Petko Georgiev, Ving Ian Lei, Ryan Burnell, Libin Bai, Anmol Gulati, Garrett Tanzer, Damien Vincent, Zhufeng Pan, Shibo Wang, and 1 others. 2024. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of context. 

Preprint , arXiv:2403.05530. ArXiv:2403.05530. Jiani Guo, Zuchao Li, Jie Wu, Qianren Wang, Yun Li, Lefei Zhang, Hai Zhao, and Yujiu Yang. 2025. ToM: Leveraging tree-oriented MapReduce for long-context reasoning in large language models. In Pro-ceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) .Taicheng Guo, Xiuying Chen, Yaqi Wang, Ruidi Chang, Shichao Pei, Nitesh V. Chawla, Olaf Wiest, and Xi-angliang Zhang. 2024. Large language model-based multi-agents: A survey of progress and challenges. 

Preprint , arXiv:2402.01680. ArXiv:2402.01680. Siwei Han, Peng Xia, Ruiyi Zhang, Tong Sun, Yun Li, Hongtu Zhu, and Huaxiu Yao. 2025. MDocA-gent: A multi-modal multi-agent framework for doc-ument understanding. Preprint , arXiv:2503.13964. ArXiv:2503.13964. Yubin Kim, Ken Gu, Chanwoo Park, Chunjong Park, Samuel Schmidgall, A. Ali Heydari, Yao Yan, Zhi-han Zhang, Yuchen Zhuang, Mark Malhotra, Paul Pu Liang, Hae Won Park, Yuzhe Yang, Xuhai Xu, Yilun Du, Shwetak Patel, Tim Althoff, Daniel McDuff, and Xin Liu. 2025. Towards a science of scal-ing agent systems. Preprint , arXiv:2512.08296. ArXiv:2512.08296. Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. In Advances in Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems .Teng Lin, Yuyu Luo, Honglin Zhang, Jicheng Zhang, Chunlin Liu, Kaishun Wu, and Nan Tang. 2025. MEBench: Benchmarking large language models for cross-document multi-entity question answering. In 

Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) .Nelson F. Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. 2023. Lost in the middle: How language mod-els use long contexts. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 12. Seiji Maekawa, Hayate Iso, and Nikita Bhutani. 2024. Holistic reasoning with long-context LMs: A bench-mark for database operations on massive textual data. 

Preprint , arXiv:2410.11996. ArXiv:2410.11996. David J. Moore. 2025. A taxonomy of hierarchical multi-agent systems: Design patterns, coordination mechanisms, and industrial applications. Preprint ,arXiv:2508.12683. ArXiv:2508.12683. Litu Ou and Mirella Lapata. 2025. Context-aware hier-archical merging for long document summarization. 

Preprint , arXiv:2502.00977. ArXiv:2502.00977. Parth Sarthi, Salman Abdullah, Aditi Tuli, Shubh Khanna, Anna Goldie, and Christopher D. Man-ning. 2024. RAPTOR: Recursive abstractive pro-cessing for tree-organized retrieval. Preprint ,arXiv:2401.18059. ArXiv:2401.18059. Li Sun, Liu He, Shuyue Jia, Yangfan He, and Chenyu You. 2025. DocAgent: An agentic framework for multi-modal long-context document understanding. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) .V. A. Traag, L. Waltman, and N. J. van Eck. 2019. From louvain to leiden: Guaranteeing well-connected com-munities. Scientific Reports , 9(1):5233. Minzheng Wang, Longze Chen, Cheng Fu, Shengyi Liao, Xinghua Zhang, Bingli Wu, Haiyang Yu, Nan Xu, Lei Zhang, Run Luo, Yunshui Li, Min Yang, Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2024a. Leave no document behind: Benchmarking long-context LLMs with ex-tended multi-doc QA. Preprint , arXiv:2406.17419. ArXiv:2406.17419. Qian Wang, Tianyu Wang, Zhenheng Tang, Qinbin Li, Nuo Chen, Jingsheng Liang, and Bingsheng He. 2024b. Megaagent: A large-scale autonomous LLM-based multi-agent system without predefined SOPs. 

Preprint , arXiv:2408.09955. ArXiv:2408.09955. Tomer Wolfson, Harsh Trivedi, Mor Geva, Yoav Gold-berg, Dan Roth, Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, and Reut Tsarfaty. 2025. Monaco: More nat-ural and complex questions for reasoning across dozens of documents. Preprint , arXiv:2508.11133. ArXiv:2508.11133. Wentao Zhang, Liang Zeng, Yuzhen Xiao, Yong-cong Li, Ce Cui, Yilei Zhao, Rui Hu, Yang Liu, Yahui Zhou, and Bo An. 2025. AgentOrchestra: A hierarchical multi-agent framework for general-purpose task solving. Preprint , arXiv:2506.12508. ArXiv:2506.12508. Jun Zhao, Can Zu, Hao Xu, Yi Lu, Wei He, Yiwen Ding, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, and Xuanjing Huang. 2024. LongAgent: Scaling language models to 128k context through multi-agent collaboration. Preprint ,arXiv:2402.11550. ArXiv:2402.11550. Zihan Zhou, Chong Li, Xinyi Chen, Shuo Wang, Yu Chao, Zhili Li, Haoyu Wang, Qi Shi, Zhixing Tan, Xu Han, Xiaodong Shi, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2025. LLM ×MapReduce: Simplified long-sequence processing using large language models. In Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics (ACL) .Andrew Zhu, Alyssa Hwang, Liam Dugan, and Chris Callison-Burch. 2024. FanOutQA: A multi-hop, multi-document question answering benchmark for large language models. In Proceedings of the An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) .

A Prompts 

All prompts are defined in 

backend/core/prompts.py .

A.1 Coordinator Prompt (LEAD_RESEARCHER_PROMPT )                                                                                                                              

> You are alead researcher coordinating aRAG-based analysis to answer auser query. Pipeline Architecture: 1. YOU (now) — Decompose the query into extraction tasks and write a synthesis directive to guide the downstream synthesizer. 2. Sub-agents (next) —Each document is assigned one worker that runs your tasks independently. Workers search their document and report raw findings. They run in parallel and cannot see each other’s results. 3. Synthesizer (last) —Adownstream agent receives ALL worker findings and merges them into asingle coherent response. It follows your synthesis_directive to decide what to prioritize and how to structure the output. You CANNOT see the names, types, or content of the documents. Your ONLY job in this step:
> •Produce alist of subagent_todos (as structured output): precise extraction tasks that will be executed independently against EACH document by the sub-agents.
> •Produce asynthesis_directive: aconcise instruction (2–4 sentences) for the synthesizer. Todo-writing rules:
> •Decompose the user query into concrete information requirements.
> •Each todo must be self-contained and unambiguous.
> •Prefer atomic tasks over broad tasks.
> •Include coverage for: definitions, numeric values, constraints, edge cases, error modes, and any explicit recommendations required by the user query.
> •Design arobust extraction list that works for ANY document in the set. Important Constraints:
> •Do not assume any document contains the answer. Write todos that can be answered with either “Found” or “Not found in this document.”
> •Tell the worker WHAT to extract, not HOW to extract it.
> •Do not synthesize, summarize, or attempt to answer the user query yourself.

A.2 Document Sub-Agent Prompt (RESEARCH_SYSTEM_PROMPT )             

> You are asub-agent investigating asingle document: {file_name}. You operate inside an iterative retrieval loop. On each turn you output exactly one structured action:
> •action="search": Issue afocused query to retrieve information from

the document. Set query to aspecific, targeted search string. Set reasoning to why this query is needed. 

• action="finalize": You have gathered sufficient evidence to address ALL assigned tasks. Set findings to your complete extracted report. Set reasoning to a brief summary of what you found. Investigation principles: 1. Start by identifying the key facts required for each task. 2. Issue ONE focused query per turn — prefer specific terms over broad phrases. 3. Expand to synonyms or paraphrases if initial results are incomplete. 4. Issue separate queries for different aspects of a task. 5. Keep searching until every task is covered with concrete evidence or confirmed absent. 6. Do NOT attempt to answer the user query directly — extract raw facts only. 7. Do NOT finalize a task as ’Not found’ after only a single focused search. At least attempt 2focused searches before concluding information is absent. 8. Do NOT focus on very specific terms, but rather on the general context of the task. Always try to find the most relevant information. 9. You must use AT MOST 5 searches to answer a task. DO NOT OVERUSE THE SEARCH TOOL. Finalize report format: For each assigned task, output either “Found: [exact answer with supporting evidence]” or “Not found in this document.” Always report exact numbers, names, and dates. Never approximate or infer beyond the document. 

A.3 Merge / Synthesis Prompt (SYNTHESIS_PROMPT )

This prompt is used uniformly at every level of the recursive merging tree, including the final synthesis step. There is no separate final-answer prompt. 

You are a research synthesizer. Merge the following sub-agent findings into one compact, information-dense response for the user. Query: {query } Synthesis Directive: {synthesis_directive} Findings Batch: {findings } Rules: 

• Follow the synthesis directive above — it defines your main goal, priorities, and output structure. 

• Keep only information that directly helps answer the query. Discard tangential content. 

• Preserve exact numbers, names, dates, and caveats. 

• Remove redundancy. If the same fact appears multiple times, keep it once. 

• Do NOT invent or infer facts not present in the findings. 

• Same language as the findings (default English if mixed). 

B Implementation Details 

Models. The coordinator, the merging layer, and the synthesis layer use gemini-2.5-pro 

(temperature 0.0). Document sub-agents use gemini-2.5-flash (temperature 0.0) for document-scoped retrieval. The LLM judge (GPT-5) is separate and is used only for the evaluation of the Avg score. Model constants are defined in backend/shared/constants.py .

Hyperparameters. 

Parameter Value 

Chunk size (tokens) 1000 Chunk overlap (tokens) 250 Tokenizer tiktoken cl100k_base 

Embedding model Cohere embed-v4.0 

Embedding dimension 1536 Similarity metric Cosine Merge token budget B 750,000 tokens Dense retrieval top-K 15 Reranker Cohere rerank-v4.0-fast 

Reranker top-N 5Sub-agent iteration safety limit 5Clustering algorithm Agglomerative (UPGMA) Clustering metric Precomputed cosine distance 

Cost measurement. Per-query costs are pulled from LangSmith run metadata (extract_langsmith_info.py ) using model-specific per-token pricing.