Title: A Skill-augmented Agentic Framework and Benchmark for Multi-Video Understanding

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.14733v1

Published Time: Tue, 17 Mar 2026 04:56:15 GMT

Number of Pages: 24

Markdown Content:
## A Skill-augmented Agentic Framework and Benchmark for Multi-Video Understanding 

Yue Zhang * Liqiang Jing * Jia Li Yapeng Tian Xinya Du Yunhui Guo Vibhav Giridhar Gogate 

University of Texas at Dallas, USA 

yue.zhang@utdallas.edu, jingliqiang6@gmail.com 

Abstract 

Multimodal Large Language Models have achieved strong performance in single-video understanding, yet their ability to reason across multiple videos remains limited. Existing ap-proaches typically concatenate multiple videos into a single input and perform direct infer-ence, which introduces training–inference mis-match, information loss from frame compres-sion, and a lack of explicit cross-video coordi-nation. Meanwhile, current multi-video bench-marks primarily emphasize event-level com-parison, leaving identity-level matching, fine-grained discrimination, and structured multi-step reasoning underexplored. To address these gaps, we introduce MVX-Bench, a Multi-Video Cross-Dimension Benchmark that re-formulates 11 classical computer vision tasks into a unified multi-video question-answering framework, comprising 1,442 questions over 4,255 videos from diverse real-world datasets. We further propose SAMA, a Skill-Augmented Agentic Framework for Multi-Video Under-standing, which integrates visual tools, task-specific skills, and a conflict-aware verifica-tion mechanism to enable iterative and struc-tured reasoning. Experimental results show that SAMA outperforms strong open-source base-lines and GPT on MVX-Bench, and ablations validate the effectiveness of skill design and conflict resolution. 

1 Introduction 

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) in-tegrate visual and textual inputs, enabling a com-prehensive understanding of spatial relationships, object interactions, scene context, and abstract con-cepts. Early research primarily focused on image-based tasks such as image captioning and visual question answering (VQA), where reasoning is performed over static visual content. However, many real-world scenarios involve dynamic visual 

> *

Equal contribution. Forensic 

> Detection
> Counting
> Video
> Similarity
> Multi-View
> Reasoning
> Art Style
> Re-
> Identification
> Action
> Matching
> Spatial
> Relation
> Sequence
> Reasoning
> Defeasible
> Entailment
> Counterfactual
> Reasoning
> 100
> 150
> 69
> 106
> 150
> 150
> 150
> 150
> 117
> 150
> 150

Total 

1,442  

> High-level Reasoning
> Low-level Perception Mid-level Matching

Figure 1: Statistics of our benchmark. The benchmark includes 1,442 samples across 11 tasks, spanning low-level perception, mid-level cross-video matching, and high-level reasoning. 

streams rather than isolated images, motivating a transition toward video understanding tasks, in-cluding video captioning and temporal question answering. While MLLMs have achieved substan-tial progress in single-video reasoning, their abil-ity to model spatiotemporal patterns across multi-ple videos remains limited, as multi-video under-standing requires cross-video alignment, consis-tency management, and structured reasoning be-yond single-stream analysis. To facilitate systematic evaluation of multi-video understanding, recent benchmarks such as CrossVid (Li et al., 2025), MVU-Eval (Peng et al., 2025), and CVBench (Zhu et al., 2025) have been introduced to evaluate cross-video reasoning capa-bilities of multimodal LLMs. These works provide valuable testbeds for assessing event-level under-1

> arXiv:2603.14733v1 [cs.CV] 16 Mar 2026

standing and comparative reasoning across mul-tiple video streams. However, a substantial por-tion of existing multi-video datasets rely on syn-thetic or model-generated question–answer pairs, which may introduce distributional biases and re-duce the diversity of real-world visual complex-ity. Moreover, current evaluations primarily em-phasize event-level correspondence or comparative reasoning, leaving identity-level matching, fine-grained discrimination, and structurally complex multi-step reasoning comparatively underexplored. As a result, the current evaluation landscape may not fully reflect the breadth and difficulty of real-world multi-video understanding. To address these limitations and provide a more comprehensive and realistic evaluation framework for multi-video understanding, we introduce MVX-Bench, a Multi-Video Cross-Dimension Bench-mark. MVX-Bench reimagines classical com-puter vision problems within a unified multi-video question-answering paradigm, enabling systematic evaluation of MLLMs under diverse and realistic settings. As illustrated in Figure 1, MVX-Bench consists of 11 canonical computer vision tasks adapted to multi-video scenarios, spanning low-level pattern matching (e.g., Counting), mid-level reasoning (e.g., Action Matching), and high-level visual understanding (e.g., structured cross-video reasoning and counterfactual inference). Each tra-ditional task is reformulated into a modern multiple-choice question-answering format, where answer options may consist of either videos or text. In total, MVX-Bench contains 1,442 questions across 4,255 videos. Each question involves multiple videos curated from a diverse range of datasets (Amini-Naieni and Zisserman, 2025; Zhang et al., 2025b; Zi et al., 2020), covering indoor household scenes as well as outdoor urban and natural environments. The questions and answer choices are either derived from the original datasets or manually authored to ensure clarity and controlled evaluation. Existing multimodal approaches typically handle multi-video tasks by concatenating multiple videos into a single input sequence and performing direct inference. However, this single-pass paradigm of-ten suffers from a mismatch between single-video training and multi-video inference, information loss caused by aggressive frame compression, and the absence of explicit mechanisms for coordinat-ing reasoning across multiple video streams. Mo-tivated by these limitations and inspired by recent video agent frameworks (Fan et al., 2024), we pro-pose SAMA, a Skill-Augmented Agentic Frame-work for Multi-Video Understanding, as illustrated in Figure 2. Unlike existing video agents primar-ily designed for single-video reasoning, SAMA is the first agentic framework explicitly tailored to multi-video scenarios. It incorporates a diverse set of visual tools and task-specific agentic skills designed for cross-video coordination, and further introduces a conflict resolution mechanism to ad-dress inconsistencies arising from heterogeneous tool outputs. Experimental results on MVX-Bench demonstrate the effectiveness of our agentic frame-work, which outperforms all evaluated baselines, including open-source model families such as In-ternVL3.5 (Wang et al., 2025b), Qwen2.5-VL (Bai et al., 2025), and Gemma-3 (Kamath et al., 2025), as well as proprietary models such as GPT. Our contributions can be summarized as fol-lows: 1) We construct MVX-Bench, a Multi-Video Cross-Dimension Benchmark comprising 11 canonical computer vision tasks adapted to multi-video scenarios, covering low-level pattern match-ing, mid-level reasoning, and high-level visual un-derstanding. 2) To the best of our knowledge, we present the first agentic framework explicitly de-signed for multi-video understanding. Our frame-work, SAMA, integrates diverse visual tools, task-specific agentic skills, and a conflict resolution mechanism to enable structured cross-video reason-ing. 3) Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of SAMA, outperforming strong open-source baselines and GPT-4o on MVX-Bench. Ablation studies further validate the importance of our skill design and conflict detection mechanism. 

2 Related Work 

2.1 Multimodal Large Language Models 

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have progressed from image understanding (Liu et al., 2023b,a; Zhu et al., 2023) to video under-standing (Zhang et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023a; Maaz et al., 2023). Recent models, such as Qwen2.5-VL (Bai et al., 2025) and InternVL3.5 (Wang et al., 2025b), extend video understanding to longer tem-poral contexts. However, current MLLMs are still primarily developed for single-video inputs. When applied to multi-video settings, they typically con-catenate frames from different sources into a sin-gle sequence, which can lead to training–inference mismatch, information loss under limited context budgets, and the absence of explicit mechanisms 2for cross-video coordination. 

2.2 Video Understanding Benchmarks 

Existing video benchmarks mainly focus on single-video understanding (Li et al., 2023b; Fu et al., 2024; Zhou et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2024). More recent benchmarks, including CVBench (Zhu et al., 2025), CrossVid (Li et al., 2025), and MVU-Eval (Peng et al., 2025), begin to examine cross-video reasoning. However, these benchmarks mainly emphasize event-level or semantic-level comparisons, while other capabilities, such as identity-level matching, forensic discrimination, and more structured forms of reasoning across videos, remain less explored. To study these set-tings, we introduce MVX-Bench, which consists of 11 tasks organized into three cognitive levels. 

2.3 Agentic Frameworks for Video Understanding 

Agentic approaches augment language models with external tools for visual reasoning (Wang et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024; Zhi et al., 2025; Sur’is et al., 2023). These methods provide tool access but largely rely on the LLM to implicitly discover effective orchestration strategies. In complex set-tings, however, effective tool use often requires more explicit procedural guidance, such as when to invoke a tool, how to combine intermediate ev-idence, and when to stop. Recent work beyond video understanding (Li et al., 2026) explores this idea through skills , which provide structured guid-ance for tool use and reasoning. However, existing video agents are mainly designed for single-video settings and do not explicitly support multi-video coordination. To address this limitation, we pro-pose SAMA, a multi-video agentic framework that integrates task-specific skills with an external veri-fication layer for conflict detection and refinement. 

3 MVX-Bench 

Our goal is to comprehensively evaluate the multi-video understanding capabilities of existing Multi-modal LLMs. While recent benchmarks have made important progress in evaluating cross-video per-ception, comparison, and temporal reasoning, most existing efforts primarily focus on event-level asso-ciation, aggregation, or alignment across videos. We introduce MVX-Bench (Multi-Video Cross-Dimension Benchmark), a novel benchmark de-signed to extend the multi-video evaluation space to identity-level matching, style-level abstraction, manipulation discrimination, and structurally com-plex reasoning scenarios such as counterfactual inference and defeasible entailment. 

3.1 Overview 

To rigorously evaluate multi-video understanding, we curated 11 challenging tasks (see Figure 1) rep-resentative of both classic computer vision prob-lems and emerging real-world multimodal appli-cations. Crucially, these tasks inherently demand cross-video reasoning. The benchmark spans a broad spectrum of capabilities, ranging from low-level perceptual analysis and mid-level cross-video association to high-level complex reasoning. This structured diversity enables a detailed examination of Multimodal LLM performance across varying levels of abstraction and cognitive complexity. To facilitate evaluation, we recast all tasks into a unified multiple-choice question-answering for-mat. We repurpose several existing vision datasets and supplement them with newly collected data to ensure comprehensive coverage of diverse multi-video scenarios. In total, our benchmark comprises 1,442 samples across 4,255 videos. Each sample consists of a question paired with multiple videos, requiring the model to synthesize cross-video ev-idence to select the correct candidate option. The questions and answer choices are either adapted directly from the source datasets or generated via curated templates. Task-specific statistics are de-tailed in Figure 1. 

Key features of MVX-Bench: Unlike prior multi-video benchmarks that focus primarily on cross-video perception and comparative reasoning, our benchmark introduces identity-level matching, style-level abstraction, forensic discrimination, and logically structured cross-video reasoning (counter-factual & defeasible inference), providing a quali-tatively different stress-test for multi-video under-standing. First, prior works primarily focus on event-level or comparative reasoning across videos, whereas our benchmark introduces identity-level and style-level matching tasks (e.g., person re-identification and art style recognition), requiring models to disentangle invariant properties from su-perficial changes. Second, we incorporate forensic detection and near-duplicate discrimination tasks, targeting subtle visual artifacts and fine-grained vi-sual similarity—capabilities largely underexplored in existing multi-video QA benchmarks. Third, be-yond single-step comparison or aggregation, our 3benchmark introduces structurally complex reason-ing scenarios, including nested counterfactual infer-ence and defeasible entailment with belief revision. These tasks require multi-step reasoning across video evidence rather than simple cross-video align-ment. 

3.2 Data Collection 

MVX-Bench is constructed by repurposing 11 ex-isting video datasets into a unified multiple-choice evaluation format. Each task leverages dataset-provided annotations to create controlled cross-video reasoning problems, ensuring exactly one correct answer per question. Detailed construction procedures are provided in Appendix A. Specifically, (1) Counting evaluates quantitative comparison of object occurrences across videos; (2) Forensic Detection tests the ability to distin-guish manipulated from authentic content; (3) Ac-tion Matching measures semantic alignment of actions across videos; (4) Re-Identification evalu-ates identity consistency under viewpoint and ap-pearance variation; (5) Art Style assesses stylistic abstraction independent of depicted content; (6) 

Multi-View Reasoning probes spatial consistency across different viewpoints and sensing modali-ties; (7) Video Similarity measures fine-grained perceptual similarity; (8) Counterfactual Reason-ing evaluates alignment of hypothetical outcomes across videos; (9) Defeasible Entailment tests dy-namic belief revision under additional evidence; (10) Sequence Reasoning assesses temporal order-ing capabilities; and (11) Spatial Relation evalu-ates understanding of motion dynamics and spatial trends. 

4 SAMA 

Multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) have demonstrated strong performance on a wide range of video under-standing tasks, including action recognition, tem-poral reasoning, and video question answering. Recent advances enable these models to process longer videos and perform increasingly complex visual-language reasoning. However, extending these models from single-video understanding to multi-video scenarios remains non-trivial. A com-mon approach is to concatenate multiple videos into a single input sequence and perform direct inference. While straightforward, this paradigm presents several structural challenges. First, most MLLMs are predominantly trained on single-image or single-video data, with limited exposure to coor-dinated multi-video reasoning. As a result, direct multi-video inference introduces a distribution shift that these models are not explicitly optimized for. Second, multi-video inputs significantly increase the number of visual tokens, often requiring ag-gressive frame sampling or compression, which may lead to information loss and reduced tempo-ral fidelity. Third, many multi-video tasks inher-ently require structured decomposition, such as per-video analysis, cross-video alignment, and multi-step reasoning, yet single-pass inference lacks ex-plicit mechanisms for such modular coordination. While agentic frameworks have recently emerged to handle complex video tasks, existing approaches often fall short in multi-video scenar-ios due to two primary limitations. First, despite the availability of diverse information extraction tools, current video agents typically rely on a ho-mogeneous and restricted toolset—often limited to basic captioning or tagging. This lack of tool di-versity prevents the agent from capturing the multi-faceted evidence necessary to resolve cross-video contradictions or alignments. Second, these frame-works typically assume the underlying LLM can inherently orchestrate tools without explicit guid-ance, creating a procedural "how-to" gap. With-out a mechanism to teach the model the specific logic of tool coordination, the agent struggles to effectively synthesize information from multiple streams. To bridge these gaps, we propose SAMA, a Skill-Augmented Agentic Framework for Multi-Video Understanding, which introduces a dedicated Skill Library to empower the model with both a rich set of specialized tools and the procedural mas-tery required for complex multi-video reasoning. 

4.1 Overview 

As illustrated in Figure 2, SAMA is organized into two layers: an Agent Core and an external Veri-fication Layer. The Agent Core consists of (i) a text-only LLM Planner that performs task analysis and decision-making, (ii) a multimodal toolkit of Tools for extracting evidence from videos, and (iii) reusable Skills that provide structured workflows and domain guidance to support tool use. The Veri-fication Layer includes a Conflict Detection module that identifies inconsistencies among tool outputs, an Evidence Aggregation module that consolidates verified information into an evidence pool, and an Adaptive Reading module that is triggered when conflicts are detected. Upon detecting conflicting 4evidence, Adaptive Reading guides the Planner to invoke additional tools for further verification until the conflict is resolved. After conflict resolution and aggregation, the Planner evaluates whether the accumulated evidence is sufficient to answer the question. If not, it initiates a new reasoning itera-tion by selecting additional tools or skills. Newly retrieved evidence is again processed through the Conflict Detection module before being incorpo-rated into the evidence pool. 

4.2 Agent Core 4.2.1 Planner 

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demon-strated strong performance in multi-step reason-ing, decision-making, and tool-augmented problem solving. These capabilities make them suitable for coordinating complex multi-video tasks that re-quire planning and iterative reasoning. Following VideoAgent (Fan et al., 2024), we adopt GPT-5.2 as a text-only Planner. The Planner analyzes the ques-tion, selects appropriate tools and skills, generates queries, reasons over intermediate evidence, and determines when sufficient information has been collected to produce the final answer. 

4.2.2 Tools 

As shown in Figure 2, SAMA provides the plan-ner with eight tools organized into three functional groups, each offering a distinct mode of interaction with video content. 

Perception Tools: 1) Video Reader , implemented using a large vision-language model (LVLM), which takes the question from the Planner along with the video input and generates a natural-language response to the query. 2) Temporal Grounding , which, given a query generated by the Planner, localizes the corresponding event or ac-tion within the video and returns the relevant times-tamps. 

Detection Tools: 1) Scene Graph , which constructs a structured representation for each frame by ex-tracting object categories, bounding boxes, object attributes, and relationships between objects. 2) 

Object Tracker , which associates detected objects across frames to preserve consistent identities, al-lowing temporal tracking of object counts, spatial trajectories, and attribute variations. 

Other Tools: 1) Visual Similarity , which computes the similarity between frame-level embeddings of two video segments and returns a normalized simi-larity score in [0 , 1] . 2) Subtitle Retriever & Extrac-tor , which performs semantic search over subtitle transcripts to retrieve relevant segments and ex-tracts the corresponding raw subtitle text within a specified time range. 

4.2.3 Skills 

Equipping an LLM planner with tool access alone is insufficient for multi-video tasks, as the planner must determine when to invoke each tool, in what order, and when to stop. To address this, we in-troduce task-specific skills, structured behavioral guides that wrap one or more tools with explicit in-vocation policies. Unlike standard tool descriptions that only specify functionality, a skill additionally encodes trigger conditions, invocation sequences, and stopping criteria. Each skill is provided in the Planner’s system context to guide structured rea-soning, and SAMA includes five such skills, each targeting a distinct mode of multi-video reasoning. We provide details of all skills in Appendix ?? .

Multi-video Comparison: This skill handles ref-erence–candidate comparison tasks. The planner is instructed to first analyze the reference video, then evaluate candidate videos using consistent queries to ensure comparable evidence. For appearance-based questions, it prioritizes the Visual Similarity 

tool for direct embedding-based comparison; for event-level matching, it relies on Video Reader for semantic alignment and uses similarity scores as tie-breakers when necessary. The skill enforces evidence-based decision-making and commits to a final answer once decisive evidence is obtained. 

Video Reader: This skill supports segment-level perception and evidence extraction. It requires the Planner to issue clear, self-contained questions tar-geting descriptive evidence, while reserving final judgment for the Planner rather than embedding decisions within the query. When initial evidence is insufficient, the skill prescribes sequential chunk-based scanning and targeted re-checking to refine the evidence before proceeding to reasoning. 

Temporal Grounding: This skill defines a struc-tured protocol for event localization in long videos. The Planner first invokes the Temporal Grounding tool to propose candidate timestamps based on enti-ties and actions in the query. Retrieved timestamps are treated strictly as candidate hints rather than evidence and must be verified through the Video Reader before being used in reasoning. If no rel-evant timestamps are returned, the skill enforces sequential chunk-based scanning to ensure compre-hensive coverage. 5Text-Only LLM 

> Planner
> Perception
> Tools
> Video Reader
> Temporal
> Gounding
> Detection
> Tools
> Scene Graph
> Object Tracker
> Other
> Tools
> Subtitle
> Retriever &
> Extractor
> Conflict Detection
> Evidence Aggregation
> 23
> Tools
> 5
> 6
> Visual Similarity
> Yes
> No 4
> Is there any conflicts
> between tools?
> Skills
> Multi-video
> Comparison
> skill
> Video Reader
> skill
> Temporal
> Grounding skill
> Subtitle skill
> Meta Planner
> Multi-video Input & Question
> 1
> Final Answer

Figure 2: Overview of the SAMA framework. A text-only LLM planner, guided by task-adaptive skills that define when, how, and in what order to invoke tools, orchestrates eight visual tools across three groups: Perception, Detection, and Other tools. Skills determine the invocation strategy based on task type — for example, similarity tasks prioritize Visual Similarity before Video Reader, while counting tasks consult both Video Reader and Scene Graph to enable cross-modal conflict detection. Detected conflicts trigger adaptive re-reading, feeding corrective information back to the planner before the final answer is produced. 

Subtitle: This skill defines a structured procedure for tasks involving spoken content, dialogue, or on-screen text. The Planner first invokes the Sub-title Retriever to locate semantically relevant seg-ments, followed by the Subtitle Extractor to obtain exact transcript content within the identified time range. Retrieved text is treated as primary evidence, and visual verification via the Video Reader is per-formed only when the textual content is ambiguous or insufficient for disambiguation. 

Meta Planner: Unlike task-specific skills, this skill operates at a higher level to orchestrate multi-video reasoning. It requires the Planner to first iden-tify the question type before invoking any special-ized skill, ensuring appropriate skill selection and avoiding premature tool calls. The Meta Planner enforces consistent video-to-identifier mappings without assuming candidate ordering and resolves potential conflicts among multiple skills through a fixed priority scheme: output-format constraints take precedence, followed by task-specific rules, and finally default reasoning behaviors. 

4.3 External Verification Layer Conflict Detection and Adaptive Re-reading. 

Even with well-designed skills, different tools may produce contradictory outputs. For example, the 

Video Reader , powered by a VLM, may describe a traffic light as red, while the Scene Graph tool’s color analysis detects green in the majority of frames. Such conflicts arise because VLMs ex-cel at high-level semantic interpretation but may be less reliable for fine-grained perceptual attributes such as color or object count. To address this issue, SAMA leverages the Plan-ner to automatically detect cross-tool inconsisten-cies by comparing structured outputs from different tools. When a conflict is identified, the system in-jects the conflicting evidence into the Planner’s context, prompting it to generate additional veri-fication queries and invoke appropriate tools for further validation. The newly retrieved results are appended to the existing evidence pool, allowing the Planner to reassess and reconcile competing ob-servations during reasoning. This verification loop continues until the Planner determines that the con-flict has been sufficiently resolved, after which final decision-making proceeds based on the aggregated and validated evidence. 

Evidence Aggregation. After conflict resolution, verified evidence is aggregated before further rea-soning. However, directly injecting all accumu-lated evidence into the Planner’s context may lead to a failure mode in which earlier observations are 6implicitly neglected as the context grows longer. To mitigate this issue, SAMA maintains a structured memory dictionary , where each key corresponds to a video identifier and the associated value stores all validated evidence related to that video. For lengthy evidence, a concise, distilled representation is stored in memory to preserve essential informa-tion while controlling context length. After updat-ing the memory, the Planner evaluates whether the accumulated evidence is sufficient to answer the question. If not, it initiates another reasoning cycle by calling tools or skills, retrieving new evidence, and routing it again through the conflict detection and aggregation process. This iterative loop con-tinues until sufficient, validated evidence has been collected for the final answer. 

5 Experiments 

5.1 Experimental Setup 

We use accuracy as an evaluation metric for multi-video understanding tasks. We evaluate 20 open-sourced models spanning four model size tiers, including 1) Large ( ≥ 14 B): InternVL3.5-38B, Qwen2.5-VL-32B-Instruct, InternVL3.5-14B, and Gemma-3-27B-IT; 2) Medium ( 7B– 14 B): Gemma-3-12B-IT, Pixtral-12B (Agrawal et al., 2024), InternVL3.5-8B, MiniCPM-V-2 (8B) (Yao et al., 2024), Bee-8B (Zhang et al., 2025a), Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct, LLaVA-OneVision-7B (Li et al., 2024), Phi-4-Multimodal (Abouelenin et al., 2025), and Idefics3-8B-Llama3 (Laurençon et al., 2024); and 3) Small ( < 7B): InternVL3.5-4B, Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct, Gemma-3-4B-IT, and Phi-3.5-Vision-Instruct (4.2B) (Abdin et al., 2024). Our agentic framework employs GPT-5.2 as the text-only LLM Planner and Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct as the Video Reader. Temporal grounding is implemented using LanguageBind, while scene graph generation relies on GroundingDINO (Liu et al., 2023c). Object tracking is performed with YOLOv8m (Varghese and M, 2024), and vi-sual similarity is computed using CLIP embed-dings (Radford et al., 2021). Subtitle retrieval and extraction are supported by BGE-M3 (Chen et al., 2024). All results are reported with seed 42 and temperature 0. The Planner is allowed to operate for up to 10 reasoning iterations per sample. 

5.2 Results and Analysis 

Table 1 presents the results across all 11 tasks. We highlight several key findings. 1) Multi-video un-derstanding remains far from solved. The best overall accuracy is 52.7% (SAMA), and even GPT-5.2 achieves only 50.9%. Most open-source mod-els cluster between 32% and 47%, with several tasks near random baseline performance. This con-firms that our benchmark poses a genuine chal-lenge to current models. 2) Scaling helps selec-tively, not uniformly. Larger models generally outperform smaller ones on association tasks such as Action Matching and Video Similarity, where recognizing visual patterns benefits from greater model capacity. However, scaling provides little advantage on reasoning tasks: on Counterfactual Reasoning, all models regardless of size score be-tween 16% and 32%, barely above the 25% ran-dom baseline. Similarly, Spatial Relation remains near random across all model scales. This sug-gests that certain multi-video reasoning capabili-ties are not emergent properties of scale. 3) Task-specific strengths vary across models. No sin-gle model dominates all tasks. GPT-5.2 leads on Action Matching (79.3%) and Forensic Detection (68.0%), while InternVL3.5-38B achieves the best Sequence Reasoning (50.4%) and Video Similarity (82.6%). Notably, InternVL3.5-14B achieves the highest Re-Identification accuracy (62.0%), out-performing much larger models, suggesting that identity reasoning may depend more on training data composition than raw model size. 4) Skill-augmented agentic reasoning substantially im-proves a 7B vision model. SAMA uses Qwen2.5-VL-7B as its visual perception backbone but the same model that achieves only 32.6% when used end-to-end. With the agentic framework, the same visual backbone reaches 52.7%, an improvement of 20.1 percentage points . This gain is consis-tent across nearly all tasks. These results demon-strate that structured tool orchestration can unlock capabilities that are inaccessible to the same vi-sion model when used in a standard end-to-end pipeline. 5) SAMA reaches proprietary-model performance with a 7B vision backbone. Beyond improving over its own visual backbone, SAMA achieves 52.7% overall accuracy, comparable to GPT-5.2 (50.9%) and surpassing GPT-4o (47.7%) as well as all open-source end-to-end models in-cluding InternVL3.5-38B (47.2%). SAMA shows particular strength on tasks requiring fine-grained perception and complex reasoning, i.e., Count-ing (41.2% vs. 32.0%), Counterfactual Reasoning (32.0% vs. 24.0%), Defeasible Entailment (56.7% vs. 52.7%), and Sequence Reasoning (49.3% vs. 7Low-Level Mid-Level High-Level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

> Model Avg CNT FD AM ART RID MVR VS CR DE SEQ SPR
> Random 33.2% 25.0% 50.0% 25.0% 25.0% 50.0% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 50.0% 40.5% 25.0% GPT-4o 47.7% 26.0% 49.0% 71.3% 70.7% 40.0% 70.8% 76.8% 23.3% 52.0% 39.3% 26.7% GPT-5.2 50.9% 32.0% 68.0% 79.3% 73.3% 58.0% 57.5% 81.2% 24.0% 52.7% 22.4% 28.7%
> Model Size ≥14B InternVL3.5-38B 47.2% 28.7% 45.0% 71.3% 53.3% 58.0% 53.8% 82.6% 22.7% 46.0% 50.4% 28.7% Qwen2.5-VL-32B 46.3% 20.7% 52.0% 72.0% 50.7% 56.7% 58.5% 78.3% 19.3% 51.3% 45.3% 27.3% InternVL3.5-14B 43.8% 26.7% 51.0% 68.0% 44.0% 62.0% 33.0% 79.7% 22.7% 46.0% 40.2% 26.0% Gemma-3-27B-IT 44.7% 28.0% 46.0% 72.7% 56.0% 56.7% 33.0% 82.6% 16.7% 52.7% 35.9% 27.3%
> Model Size : 7B ≤Size <14B Gemma-3-12B-IT 41.5% 25.3% 43.0% 65.3% 49.3% 60.0% 16.0% 71.0% 23.3% 52.0% 36.3% 22.0% Pixtral-12B 35.4% 23.3% 43.0% 27.3% 33.3% 58.0% 27.4% 36.2% 30.7% 46.7% 39.3% 25.3% InternVL3.5-8B 44.7% 30.7% 49.0% 68.7% 49.3% 60.0% 26.4% 81.2% 21.3% 51.3% 43.6% 26.0% MiniCPM-V-2 32.0% 28.7% 41.0% 24.0% 23.3% 51.3% 22.6% 15.9% 28.0% 49.3% 38.5% 22.0% Bee-8B 33.2% 26.0% 55.0% 28.7% 23.3% 52.7% 34.9% 24.6% 26.7% 32.7% 45.1% 22.0% Qwen2.5-VL-7B 32.6% 22.0% 59.0% 24.7% 21.3% 58.7% 21.7% 23.2% 22.0% 44.7% 44.4% 20.0% LLaVA-OneVision-7B 32.7% 26.0% 47.0% 29.3% 26.0% 54.0% 22.6% 23.2% 18.0% 52.0% 40.5% 19.3% Idefics3-8B-Llama3 33.4% 25.3% 51.0% 31.3% 24.7% 54.7% 25.5% 27.5% 18.7% 50.7% 35.0% 23.3%
> Model Size <7B InternVL3.5-4B 44.3% 26.7% 55.0% 64.7% 34.7% 57.3% 48.1% 79.7% 25.3% 53.3% 44.4% 22.0% Qwen2.5-VL-3B 38.1% 29.3% 55.0% 45.3% 27.3% 56.0% 34.9% 63.8% 16.0% 47.3% 41.0% 22.7% Gemma-3-4B-IT 40.6% 28.7% 49.0% 59.3% 30.7% 54.0% 16.0% 72.5% 26.7% 56.0% 42.7% 24.0% Phi-3.5-Vision 22.8% 22.2% 13.0% 28.1% 8.8% 58.0% 19.8% 12.5% 18.8% 0.0% 9.1% 25.0% Phi-4-Multimodal 34.4% 21.3% 55.0% 28.7% 23.3% 55.3% 34.9% 21.7% 27.3% 48.0% 42.6% 22.7%
> Our Method
> SAMA (Qwen2.5-VL-7B) 52.7% 41.2% 53.3% 78.0% 64.6% 57.3% 54.0% 78.8% 32.0% 56.7% 49.3% 30.0%

Table 1: Overall results on our benchmark. Tasks are grouped by category: Perception, Cross-Video Matching, and Reasoning. Best results are in bold ; second-best are underlined . SAMA combines GPT-5.2 as reasoning module with Qwen2.5-VL-7B for visual perception. 

22.4%). 

5.3 Ablation Studies 

To evaluate the contributions of the skill design and conflict detection modules, we randomly sample 350 examples from the benchmark and report the results in Table 2. 1) Effect of skill design. We compare the full SAMA framework with a vari-ant in which all skills are removed (w/o-Skills), retaining only basic tool interfaces. Removing skills reduces accuracy from 60.0% to 51.7%, cor-responding to an 8.3 percentage point drop. With-out structured skill guidance, the Planner defaults to generic Video Reader calls and underutilizes spe-cialized tools such as Visual Similarity and Scene Graph , even when they are appropriate for the task. These results demonstrate that explicit skill design provides essential orchestration policies beyond standalone tool descriptions. 2) Effect of conflict detection. We further ablate the Conflict Detec-tion and Adaptive Reading modules (w/o-Conflict). Removing this verification mechanism leads to a noticeable performance decline, indicating that re-solving cross-tool inconsistencies is critical for re-liable multi-video reasoning. In particular, without conflict detection, contradictory tool outputs re-main unverified, which propagates errors into the final decision stage. 

Configuration Acc. 

SAMA 60.0% w/o-Skills 51.7% w/o-Conflict 55.9% 

Table 2: Ablation studies of our SAMA. 

6 Conclusion 

In this work, we revisit the problem of multi-video understanding and argue that existing eval-uation paradigms and inference strategies are in-sufficient for capturing the structural complexity of cross-video reasoning. We introduce MVX-Bench, a comprehensive benchmark that extends classical computer vision tasks into multi-video settings, enabling systematic evaluation across low-level matching, mid-level reasoning, and high-level structured inference. To address the limitations of direct multi-video concatenation, we propose SAMA, a skill-augmented agentic framework that integrates diverse visual tools, task-specific skills, and conflict-aware verification to support iterative and coordinated reasoning across video streams. 8Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our agent. 

Limitations 

Our benchmark focuses on multiple-choice question-answering settings, which may not fully reflect open-ended generation scenarios. Explor-ing free-form multi-video reasoning remains an interesting direction for future work. 

References 

Marah Abdin, Sam Ade Jacobs, Ammar Ahmad Awan, Jyoti Aneja, Ahmed Awadallah, Hany Has-san Awadalla, Nguyen Bach, Amit Bahree, Arash Bakhtiari, Harkirat Singh Behl, Alon Benhaim, Misha Bilenko, Johan Bjorck, Sébastien Bubeck, Martin Cai, Caio C’esar Teodoro Mendes, Weizhu Chen, Vishrav Chaudhary, Parul Chopra, and 70 oth-ers. 2024. Phi-3 technical report: A highly capa-ble language model locally on your phone. ArXiv ,abs/2404.14219. Abdelrahman Abouelenin, Atabak Ashfaq, Adam Atkin-son, Hany Hassan Awadalla, Nguyen Bach, Jianmin Bao, Alon Benhaim, Martin Cai, Vishrav Chaudhary, Congcong Chen, Dongdong Chen, Dongdong Chen, Junkun Chen, Weizhu Chen, Yen-Chun Chen, Yi ling Chen, Qi Dai, Xiyang Dai, Ruchao Fan, and 54 oth-ers. 2025. Phi-4-mini technical report: Compact yet powerful multimodal language models via mixture-of-loras. ArXiv , abs/2503.01743. Pravesh Agrawal, Szymon Antoniak, Emma Bou Hanna, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Jessica Chud-novsky, Saurabh Garg, Théophile Gervet, Soham Ghosh, Am’elie H’eliou, Paul Jacob, Albert Q. Jiang, Timothée Lacroix, Guillaume Lample, Diego de Las Casas, Thibaut Lavril, Teven Le Scao, Andy Lo, William Marshall, Louis Martin, and 18 others. 2024. Pixtral 12b. ArXiv , abs/2410.07073. Niki Amini-Naieni and Andrew Zisserman. 2025. Open-world object counting in videos. ArXiv ,abs/2506.15368. Shuai Bai, Keqin Chen, Xuejing Liu, Jialin Wang, Wen-bin Ge, Sibo Song, Kai Dang, Peng Wang, Shi-jie Wang, Jun Tang, Humen Zhong, Yuanzhi Zhu, Mingkun Yang, Zhaohai Li, Jianqiang Wan, Pengfei Wang, Wei Ding, Zheren Fu, Yiheng Xu, and 8 others. 2025. Qwen2.5-vl technical report. ArXiv ,abs/2502.13923. Kevin Cai, Chonghua Liu, and David M. Chan. 2024. Anim-400k: A large-scale dataset for automated end to end dubbing of video. ICASSP 2024 - 2024 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , pages 11796–11800. João Carreira, Eric Noland, Chloe Hillier, and Andrew Zisserman. 2019. A short note on the kinetics-700 human action dataset. ArXiv , abs/1907.06987. Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. 2024. M3-embedding: Multi-linguality, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text embeddings through self-knowledge distillation. In 

Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .Daniel S. Davila, Dawei Du, Bryon Lewis, Christo-pher Funk, Jos van Pelt, Roderic Collins, Kellie Corona, Matt Brown, Scott McCloskey, Anthony J. Hoogs, and Brian Clipp. 2022. Mevid: Multi-view extended videos with identities for video person re-identification. 2023 IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV) , pages 1634–1643. Yue Fan, Xiaojian Ma, Rujie Wu, Yuntao Du, Jiaqi Li, Zhi Gao, and Qing Li. 2024. Videoagent: A memory-augmented multimodal agent for video un-derstanding. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 75–92. Springer. Chaoyou Fu, Yuhan Dai, Yondong Luo, Lei Li, Shuhuai Ren, Renrui Zhang, Zihan Wang, Chenyu Zhou, Yun-hang Shen, Mengdan Zhang, Peixian Chen, Yanwei Li, Shaohui Lin, Sirui Zhao, Ke Li, Tong Xu, Xi-awu Zheng, Enhong Chen, Rongrong Ji, and Xing Sun. 2024. Video-mme: The first-ever comprehen-sive evaluation benchmark of multi-modal llms in video analysis. 2025 IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 24108–24118. Shuai Guo, Jingchuan Hu, Kai Zhou, Jionghao Wang, Li Song, Rong Xie, and Wenjun Zhang. 2024. Real-time free viewpoint video synthesis system based on dibr and a depth estimation network. IEEE Transac-tions on Multimedia , pages 1–16. Yiming Ju, Jijin Hu, Zhengxiong Luo, Haoge Deng, Hanyu Zhao, Li Du, Chengwei Wu, Donglin Hao, Xinlong Wang, and Tengfei Pan. 2025. Ci-vid: A coherent interleaved text-video dataset. ArXiv ,abs/2507.01938. Gemma Team Aishwarya Kamath, Johan Ferret, Shreya Pathak, Nino Vieillard, Ramona Merhej, Sarah Perrin, Tatiana Matejovicova, Alexandre Ram’e, Morgane Rivière, Louis Rouillard, Thomas Mesnard, Geoffrey Cideron, Jean-Bastien Grill, Sabela Ramos, Edouard Yvinec, Michelle Casbon, Etienne Pot, Ivo Penchev, Gael Liu, and 191 others. 2025. Gemma 3 technical report. ArXiv , abs/2503.19786. Giorgos Kordopatis-Zilos, Symeon Papadopoulos, I. Pa-tras, and Ioannis Kompatsiaris. 2018. Fivr: Fine-grained incident video retrieval. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia , 21:2638–2652. Hugo Laurençon, Andrés Marafioti, Victor Sanh, and Léo Tronchon. 2024. Building and better understand-ing vision-language models: insights and future di-rections. ArXiv , abs/2408.12637. Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Dong Guo, Renrui Zhang, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Yanwei Li, Ziwei 

9Liu, and Chunyuan Li. 2024. Llava-onevision: Easy visual task transfer. ArXiv , abs/2408.03326. Jingyao Li, Jingyun Wang, Molin Tan, Haochen Wang, Cilin Yan, Likun Shi, Jiayin Cai, Xiaolong Jiang, and Yao Hu. 2025. Crossvid: A comprehen-sive benchmark for evaluating cross-video reason-ing in multimodal large language models. ArXiv ,abs/2511.12263. Kunchang Li, Yinan He, Yi Wang, Yizhuo Li, Wen Wang, Ping Luo, Yali Wang, Limin Wang, and Yu Qiao. 2023a. Videochat: chat-centric video un-derstanding. Science China Information Sciences ,68. Kunchang Li, Yali Wang, Yinan He, Yizhuo Li, Yi Wang, Yi Liu, Zun Wang, Jilan Xu, Guo Chen, Ping Luo, Limin Wang, and Yu Qiao. 2023b. Mvbench: A comprehensive multi-modal video un-derstanding benchmark. 2024 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) ,pages 22195–22206. Xiangyi Li, Wenbo Chen, Yiming Liu, Shenghan Zheng, Xiaokun Chen, Yifeng He, Yubo Li, B. You, Hao-tian Shen, Jiankai Sun, Shuyi Wang, Qunhong Zeng, Di Wang, Xuandong Zhao, Yuanli Wang, Roey Ben Chaim, Zonglin Di, Yi Gao, Junwei He, and 21 others. 2026. Skillsbench: Benchmarking how well agent skills work across diverse tasks. Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yuheng Li, and Yong Jae Lee. 2023a. Improved baselines with visual instruc-tion tuning. 2024 IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 26286–26296. Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. 2023b. Visual instruction tuning. ArXiv ,abs/2304.08485. Shilong Liu, Zhaoyang Zeng, Tianhe Ren, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Jie Yang, Chunyuan Li, Jianwei Yang, Hang Su, Jun Zhu, and 1 others. 2023c. Grounding dino: Marrying dino with grounded pre-training for open-set object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.05499 .Muhammad Maaz, Hanoona Abdul Rasheed, Salman H. Khan, and Fahad Shahbaz Khan. 2023. Video-chatgpt: Towards detailed video understanding via large vision and language models. In Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .Tianhao Peng, Haochen Wang, Yuanxing Zhang, Zekun Wang, Zili Wang, Ge Zhang, Jian Yang, Shihao Li, Yanghai Wang, Xintao Wang, Houyi Li, Wei Ji, Pengfei Wan, Wenhao Huang, Zhaoxiang Zhang, and Jiaheng Liu. 2025. Mvu-eval: Towards multi-video understanding evaluation for multimodal llms. ArXiv ,abs/2511.07250. Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sas-try, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learn-ing transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In International Conference on Machine Learning .D’idac Sur’is, Sachit Menon, and Carl Vondrick. 2023. Vipergpt: Visual inference via python execution for reasoning. 2023 IEEE/CVF International Con-ference on Computer Vision (ICCV) , pages 11854– 11864. Rejin Varghese and Sambath. M. 2024. Yolov8: A novel object detection algorithm with enhanced per-formance and robustness. 2024 International Confer-ence on Advances in Data Engineering and Intelli-gent Computing Systems (ADICS) , pages 1–6. Jiahao Wang, Yufeng Yuan, Rujie Zheng, Youtian Lin, Jian Gao, Lin-Zhuo Chen, Yajie Bao, Yi Zhang, Chang Zeng, Yanxi Zhou, Xiao xiao Long, Hao Zhu, Zhaoxiang Zhang, Xun Cao, and Yao Yao. 2025a. Spatialvid: A large-scale video dataset with spatial annotations. ArXiv , abs/2509.09676. Weiyun Wang, Zhangwei Gao, Lixin Gu, Hengjun Pu, Long Cui, Xingguang Wei, Zhaoyang Liu, Linglin Jing, Shenglong Ye, Jie Shao, Zhaokai Wang, Zhe Chen, Hongjie Zhang, Ganlin Yang, Haomin Wang, Qi Wei, Jinhui Yin, Wenhao Li, Erfei Cui, and 44 others. 2025b. Internvl3.5: Advancing open-source multimodal models in versatility, reasoning, and effi-ciency. ArXiv , abs/2508.18265. Xiaohan Wang, Yuhui Zhang, Orr Zohar, and Serena Yeung-Levy. 2024. Videoagent: Long-form video understanding with large language model as agent. In European Conference on Computer Vision .Haoning Wu, Dongxu Li, Bei Chen, and Junnan Li. 2024. Longvideobench: A benchmark for long-context interleaved video-language understanding. 

ArXiv , abs/2407.15754. Te-Lin Wu, Zi-Yi Dou, Qingyuan Hu, Yu Hou, Nis-chal Reddy Chandra, Marjorie Freedman, Ralph M. Weischedel, and Nanyun Peng. 2023. Acquired: A dataset for answering counterfactual questions in real-life videos. ArXiv , abs/2311.01620. Zeyuan Yang, Delin Chen, Xueyang Yu, Maohao Shen, and Chuang Gan. 2024. Vca: Video curious agent for long video understanding. ArXiv , abs/2412.10471. Yuan Yao, Tianyu Yu, Ao Zhang, Chongyi Wang, Junbo Cui, Hongji Zhu, Tianchi Cai, Haoyu Li, Weilin Zhao, Zhihui He, Qi-An Chen, Hua Zhou, Zhensheng Zou, Haoye Zhang, Shengding Hu, Zhi Zheng, Jie Zhou, Jie Cai, Xu Han, and 4 others. 2024. Minicpm-v: A gpt-4v level mllm on your phone. ArXiv ,abs/2408.01800. Hang Zhang, Xin Li, and Lidong Bing. 2023. Video-llama: An instruction-tuned audio-visual language model for video understanding. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .

10 Yi Zhang, Bolin Ni, Xin-Sheng Chen, Hengrui Zhang, Yongming Rao, Houwen Peng, Qin Lu, Han Hu, Meng-Hao Guo, and Shi-Min Hu. 2025a. Bee: A high-quality corpus and full-stack suite to unlock advanced fully open mllms. ArXiv , abs/2510.13795. Yue Zhang, Jilei Sun, Yunhui Guo, and Vibhav Gogate. 2025b. Can video large multimodal models think like doubters-or double-down: A study on defeasible video entailment. ArXiv , abs/2506.22385. Zhuo Zhi, Qiangqiang Wu, Minghe Shen, Wenbo Li, Yinchuan Li, Kun Shao, and Kaiwen Zhou. 2025. Videoagent2: Enhancing the llm-based agent system for long-form video understanding by uncertainty-aware cot. ArXiv , abs/2504.04471. Junjie Zhou, Yan Shu, Bo Zhao, Boya Wu, Shitao Xiao, Xi Yang, Yongping Xiong, Bo Zhang, Tiejun Huang, and Zheng Liu. 2024. Mlvu: Benchmarking multi-task long video understanding. 2025 IEEE/CVF Con-ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 13691–13701. Deyao Zhu, Jun Chen, Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. 2023. Minigpt-4: Enhancing vision-language understanding with advanced large language models. ArXiv , abs/2304.10592. Nannan Zhu, Yonghao Dong, Teng Wang, Xueqi Li, Shengjun Deng, Yijia Wang, Zheng Hong, Tiantian Geng, Guo Niu, Han Huang, Xiongfei Yao, and Shuaiwei Jiao. 2025. Cvbench: Benchmarking cross-video synergies for complex multimodal reasoning. Bojia Zi, Minghao Chang, Jingjing Chen, Xingjun Ma, and Yu-Gang Jiang. 2020. Wilddeepfake: A challeng-ing real-world dataset for deepfake detection. Pro-ceedings of the 28th ACM International Conference on Multimedia .

11 A Data Construction Details 

MVX-Bench comprises 11 tasks, as shown in Fig-ure 3, all of which have been repurposed into a multiple-choice question-answering format. These tasks utilize a diverse collection of videos from vari-ous sources. The MVX-Bench is publicly available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/ MVX-bench/MVX-Bench .

Counting. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can accurately perceive object counts across multi-ple videos. Constructed from VideoCount (Amini-Naieni and Zisserman, 2025), which provides videos annotated with object categories and counts, we generate multiple-choice questions by specify-ing a target object and a required numerical rela-tionship (same, greater, or less). Given a reference video, the model must identify which candidate video satisfies the specified relationship. Questions are constructed through a template-based pipeline. Specifically, we first sample a reference video and use the annotated count of a target object. We then randomly select a numerical relationship (same, greater, or less) and sample four candidate videos with annotated object counts as answer options. The candidates are filtered to ensure that exactly one option satisfies the required numerical relation-ship with respect to the reference. The multi-video setting requires precise quantitative perception for certain objects and cross-video comparison, expos-ing models’ weaknesses in object counting. 

Forensic Detection. Recent advances in genera-tive AI have raised concerns about malicious con-tent creation, motivating the need for automatic detection of manipulated media. In this task, the model is presented with two videos and must de-termine which one has been manipulated. The task is constructed based on WildDeepfake (Zi et al., 2020), which provides videos labeled as either au-thentic or manipulated. For each question, we sam-ple one real video and one manipulated video from the dataset and present them as candidate options for the MCQ. 

Action Matching. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can recognize and match actions across multiple videos. Given a reference video depicting a specific action, the model must identify which of the four candidate videos shows the same action. The task is constructed based on Kinetics (Carreira et al., 2019), which provides videos annotated with action labels. For each question, we sample one reference video and select a positive candidate with the same action label as the correct answer. Three negative candidates are sampled from videos with different action labels. 

Re-Identification. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can determine if individuals appearing in different videos are the same person. Given two video clips captured from different cameras, the model must decide whether they depict the same individual. The task is constructed based on MEVID (Davila et al., 2022), which provides videos of unique individuals recorded under vary-ing camera views, clothing, and backgrounds. For each question, we sample either a positive pair that shares the same identity or a negative pair consist-ing of different individuals. Positive pairs share identity but differ in clothing, viewpoint, and scene context. This task requires disentangling identity from superficial appearance changes: the model must rely on cues such as body structure, gait, and facial characteristics while ignoring variations that could mislead naive matching strategies. 

Art Style. This task evaluates LVLMs’ ability to analyze and distinguish both local and global stylistic patterns across videos. Given a reference animation clip, the model must identify which of four candidate clips comes from the same show based solely on visual style. The task is constructed based on Anim-400K (Cai et al., 2024), which pro-vides animation clips from diverse shows. For each question, we sample a reference clip and select a positive candidate from the same show as the correct answer, while three negative candidates are sampled from different shows. Unlike conventional content-matching tasks, this setting requires the model to ignore what is depicted (e.g., characters or scenes) and instead focus on how it is depicted, such as color palette, line quality, shading tech-niques, and animation fluidity. 

Multi-View Reasoning. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can reason about scene con-sistency across different viewpoints and sensing modalities. Given a reference video, the model must identify which candidate was captured at the same physical location or depicts the same event, despite variations in camera perspective or modal-ity (e.g., RGB vs. depth). The task is constructed based on the Free-Viewpoint Dataset (Guo et al., 2024), which uses a 12-view synchronous cam-era system to record the same event from multiple 12 Which video has more labeled objects than the reference? 

Reference 

"bus" 

A. Video A 

"remote control" 

B. Video B 

"skateboard" 

C. Video C 

"person" 

D. Video D 

"canister" 

Forensic Detection 

Which video is fake? 

A. Video A  B. Video B 

Which video is most similar to the reference video? 

Reference  A.Video A  B.Video B  C.Video C  D.Video D 

Are the Same person showing in videos? 

Re-Identification 

Which video performs the same action as the reference video? 

Video Similarity 

Counting 

Action Matching 

Reference 

A. YES  B. NO 

A. Video A  B. Video B  C. Video C  D. Video D 

Which video has the most similar art style to the reference? 

Art Style 

Reference  A. Video A  B. Video B  C. Video C  D. Video D 

Which candidate video is captured from the same event as the reference? 

Multi-view Reasoning 

Reference  A. Video A  B. Video B  C. Video C  D. Video D 

Which video shares at least one motion trend with the reference video? 

Spatial Relation 

Reference  A. Video A  B. Video B  C. Video C  D. Video D 

What is the correct temporal order of the following videos? 

Sequence Reasoning 

Video A  Video B  Video C  Video D 

A. ACDB 

B. DBAC 

C. CBDA 

D. ACBD 

Q: What if the riders had been practicing more? 

Option 1: They would still not succeed with the flip. 

Option 2: They might have been less likely to fall. 

Which candidate video would choose the SAME correct option as the reference video? 

Counterfactual Reasoning 

Q: What if the person had held on to the sled's handlebar? 

Option 1: He would not have been thrown off the sled. 

Option 2: The person would have flipped forward off the sled. 

Reference 

B. Video B 

> Q: what if she was more careful?
> Option 1: She would have hit the tree.
> Option 2: She wouldn't have
> hit the tree.

C. Video C   

> Q: What if the pen cover had been larger?
> Option 1: It might be harder to pick up.
> Option 2: It would still be easy to pick up .

D. Video D 

> Q: What if the person opened
> the door 10 seconds earlier?
> Option 1: They would've arrived 10s earlier.
> Option 2: They would've arrived 10s later.

A. Video A 

Defeasible Entailment 

Given the Premise video and the Update Video, is the update a strengthener or a weakener of the hypothesis? 

Premise  Update 

Hypothesis: People are watching as the bald man talks on the phone. 

A. Strengthener  B. Weakener Figure 3: Overview of the MVX-Bench. 

viewpoints. For each question, we sample a refer-ence video and select a positive candidate capturing the same event from a different viewpoint as the correct answer. Three negative candidates are sam-pled from different events. 

Video Similarity. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can perform fine-grained similarity judg-ments across videos, reflecting a nuanced under-standing of visual features, patterns, and aesthet-ics. The task is constructed based on FIVR-200K (Kordopatis-Zilos et al., 2018), which pro-vides human-annotated similarity relationships and graded similarity levels between videos. For each question, we select as the correct answer a candi-date labeled as a near-duplicate of the reference video in the dataset. Three negative candidates are randomly sampled from videos that are not an-notated as near-duplicates of the reference. This setting requires distinguishing subtle variations in visual content while recognizing high-level struc-tural and semantic similarity. 

Counterfactual Reasoning. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can reason about hypothetical sce-narios that differ from observed events. It requires models to mentally simulate alternative outcomes based on visual and linguistic context. Given a 13 reference video paired with a counterfactual ques-tion and two answer options, the model must iden-tify which candidate video is associated with the same correct answer option (e.g., Option 1 or Op-tion 2) under its respective counterfactual question. The task is constructed based on ACQUIRED (Wu et al., 2023), which provides videos annotated with counterfactual questions, two answer options, and ground-truth labels. For each question, we sam-ple a reference video together with its counterfac-tual question and answer options. We then con-struct four candidate videos, each paired with its own counterfactual question and two answer op-tions. The correct candidate is selected such that its ground-truth answer option (e.g., Option 1 or Op-tion 2) matches that of the reference, while negative candidates are chosen to ensure their correct answer options differ from the reference. The model is re-quired to select the candidate whose correct answer option index matches that of the reference. 

Defeasible Entailment. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can perform defeasible reason-ing and dynamically update beliefs in light of new evidence. Given a textual hypothesis and a premise video, the model is further presented with an update video and must determine whether the new video evidence strengthens or weakens the entailment re-lationship between the premise and the hypothesis. The task is constructed based on DVidE (Zhang et al., 2025b), which provides hypothesis texts, premise videos, update evidence, and correspond-ing labels indicating whether the update strength-ens or weakens the original entailment. We use the hypothesis text and premise video as the initial con-text, replace the textual update with its correspond-ing update video, and require the model to predict whether the update video strengthens or weakens the entailment relation. This setting evaluates dy-namic belief revision: the model must first infer an initial relationship between the premise video and hypothesis, then assess how additional visual evidence modifies that judgment. It tests whether models can flexibly revise conclusions rather than anchoring to initial interpretations. 

Sequence Reasoning. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can perform temporal reasoning over event sequences. The model is given multiple video clips from the coherent activity in shuffled order and must reconstruct the correct chronological sequence. The task is constructed based on CI-VID (Ju et al., 2025), which provides temporally ordered clips from the coherent activity. For each question, we sample several clips from a single event and randomly permute their order as input. The model is required to predict the correct temporal ordering. Rather than relying on explicit timestamps or narration, the model must infer temporal structure from visual cues such as scene progression, action continuity, object state changes, and causal dependencies between events. 

Spatial Relation. This task evaluates whether LVLMs can understand and compare motion dy-namics across videos. Given a reference video ex-hibiting specific motion trends (e.g., forward move-ment or lateral panning), the model must identify which candidate video shares at least one motion trend with the reference. The task is constructed based on SpatialVID (Wang et al., 2025a), which provides videos annotated with motion trend labels. For each question, we select a reference video and sample a positive candidate that shares at least one motion label with the reference. Three negative candidates are sampled from videos whose motion labels do not overlap with those of the reference. Positives are required to exhibit overlapping motion patterns, while negatives contain completely dis-joint motion trends. This design requires the model to abstract away from visual content and focus on underlying spatial dynamics—how the camera or subjects move through space—when comparing videos. 

B Case Analysis 

Figure 4 shows a representative example where the conflict detection mechanism directly changes the final prediction. The task requires identify-ing which video contains the same number of ob-jects as the reference video (2 cups). When ana-lyzing Video D, the VLM ( video_reader ) re-ports two grocery bags, while the detection tool (scene_graph ) identifies one. This discrepancy automatically triggers the conflict detection mod-ule, which initiates an adaptive re-read with a nar-rowed temporal window (0–10s). The focused re-read corrects the count for Video D to one grocery bag, eliminating it as a candidate. With all counts verified, the agent correctly aligns the reference (2 cups) with Video C (2 persons). In contrast, without conflict detection, the initial overcount for Video D is never corrected, and the agent incor-rectly selects Video D. This case illustrates that the verification layer not only improves evidence relia-14 Ref 

cup(s) 

Video A

skateboard(s) 

Video B

mouse(s) 

Video C ✓

person(s) 

Video D

grocery bag(s) 

Query:  Which video has the same number of objects as the reference? 

Ground-truth:  C SAMA (w/ conflict det.):  C ✓ SAMA (w/o conflict det.):  D ✗

T U R N 1 — I N I T I A L E V I D E N C E G A T H E R I N G 

P PLANNER 

Counting task. Read ref first, then use scene_graph for all candidates to get grounded counts. 

T TOOL CALLS 

video_reader  id=ref 0:20 → "How many cups are visible?" 

scene_graph  id=ref 0:20 prompts=cup,cups,mug 

scene_graph  id=A prompts=skateboard | id=B prompts=mouse | id=C prompts=person,people 

R TOOL RESULTS 

video_reader ref:  "Two men sitting at a table... There are  two cups  visible on the table." 

scene_graph ref:  t=0s: 3 cup | t=6.7s: 4 cup | t=13.3s: 1 cup | t=20s: 2 cup 

scene_graph A:  t=0s: 1 skateboard | t=6.7s: 2 | t=13.3s: 1 | t=20s: 1

scene_graph B:  t=0s: 1 mouse | t=6.7s: 3 | t=13.3s: 2 | t=20s: 1

scene_graph C:  t=0s: 2 person | t=6.7s: 3 | t=13.3s: 3 | t=20s: 1

T U R N 2 — R E A D V I D E O D + C O N F L I C T D E T E C T E D 

P PLANNER 

Missing Video D. Run  scene_graph  + video_reader  on D for grocery bag count. 

T TOOL CALLS 

scene_graph  id=D 0:20 prompts=grocery bag,shopping bag,bag 

video_reader  id=D 0:20 → "How many grocery bags are visible?" 

R TOOL RESULTS 

video_reader D:  "Two men stand together in a dimly lit room...  2 grocery bags visible. "

scene_graph D:  t=0s: 1 bag (left) | t=6.7s: 1 bag (left) | t=20s: 1 bag (center) 

! ⚠ CONFLICT DETECTED — Video D [count] 

VLM says  2 grocery bags, detection tool says  1 grocery bag. 

🔄  Trigger adaptive re-read  on Video D with narrowed temporal window. 

📌  Detection is more reliable for: object count, presence, coarse position. 

T U R N 3 — A D A P T I V E R E - R E A D I N G + R E S O L U T I O N 

↻ RE-READ (NARROWED WINDOW) 

video_reader  id=D  0:10  → "How many distinct grocery bags are clearly visible?" 

scene_graph  id=D  0:10  prompts=grocery bag,bags 

R RE-READ RESULTS 

scene_graph D (0–10s):  t=0s: 1 bag | t=3.3s: 1 bag | t=6.7s: 1 bag | t=10s: 1 bag 

→ Narrowed window confirms:  1 grocery bag . Initial detection over-counted. 

E V I D E N C E A G G R E G A T I O N + F I N A L A N S W E R 

✓ FINAL DECISION 

Video  Object  Count  Note 

ref  cup  2 VLM + scene_graph 

A skateboard  1

B mouse  1

C person  2 ✓ match 

D grocery bag  1 verified (was 2) 

<answer>C</answer>  ← SAMA (w/ conflict detection) Figure 4: Case study of the conflict detection mechanism. 

bility but can also directly alter the final decision. Figure 5 presents a case where task-specific skills determine the correct tool strategy. The task asks which video shares the most similar art style 15 Ref  Video A Video B Video C Video D ✓

Query:  Which video has the most similar art style to the reference video? 

Ground-truth:  D SAMA (w/ skills):  D ✓ SAMA (w/o skills):  C ✗

With Skills  Pred: D ✓ Without Skills  Pred: C ✗

P STEP 1          

> Following skill guidance, call both
> video_reader ×5+visual_similarity ×4

R VIDEO_READER RESULTS                           

> ref: 2D anime, clean lines, vibrant colors
> A: 2D, vibrant, colorful library setting
> B: 2D, bold outlines, dark background
> C: 2D, soft shading, earthy tones, forest
> D: 2D, detailed linework, outdoor

R VISUAL_SIMILARITY (CLIP SCORES) 

Pair  CLIP Score 

ref ↔ A 0.8101 

ref ↔ B 0.8325 

ref ↔ C 0.7663 

ref ↔ D 0.8596 ← highest 

✓ ANSWER 

D has highest CLIP score (0.8596). 

<answer>D</answer>  ✓   

> No skill guidance injected.

P STEP 1      

> Call video_reader ×5only.
> No visual_similarity invoked.

R ACTUAL VIDEO_READER RESULTS                           

> ref: 2D anime, clean lines, vibrant colors
> A: 2D, vibrant, colorful library setting
> B: 2D, bold outlines, dark background
> C: 2D, soft shading, earthy tones, forest
> D: 2D, detailed linework, outdoor

P TEXT-ONLY REASONING 

All candidates described as "2D anime". 

Only video_reader descriptions available. 

Without CLIP scores, all candidates appear 

to be "2D anime" — no way to discriminate. 

Selects C based on subjective text similarity. 

✗

<answer>C</answer>  ✗

vs        

> 📋 SKILL GUIDANCE
> "For appearance questions, run visual_similarity ..."

ANSWER Figure 5: Case study of skill-guided tool selection. 

with the reference. With skills enabled, the multi-video-compare skill explicitly instructs the agent to invoke visual_similarity for style-related ques-tions. The agent follows this guidance and obtains CLIP-based similarity scores across all candidates, where Video D achieves the highest score. The quantitative ranking provides a clear and reliable basis for selection. Without skills, the agent calls only video_reader and receives textual art style descriptions for all videos. However, all candidates are described in similar terms, making fine-grained style discrimi-nation from text alone unreliable. The agent ulti-mately selects Video C incorrectly. This case high-lights that skills serve as critical inductive biases: they direct the agent toward task-appropriate tools whose outputs provide the discriminative signals that text descriptions inherently lack. 

C Prompts 

C.1 Skills 

Multi-video Comparison 

Prompt: 

---name: multi-video-compare description: Compare ref vs candidates by reading all videos consistently and deciding after evidence. 

,→

,→

,→

---# Multi-Video Compare Skill Use for ref vs candidates matching. ,→

## Rules - Read `ref ` first, then candidates. ,→

16 - Ask comparable questions across candidates. ,→

- If the question explicitly asks about look/style/appearance or "most similar", call 

`visual_similarity ` before final answer (CLIP-score works best when viewpoint is similar). For "same event" style prompts, prioritize 

`video_reader ` event alignment and use `visual_similarity `

only as a tie-break if needed. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Do not finalize from weak or partial evidence. ,→

- Keep responses short and tool-driven. ,→

- `visual_similarity ` is aCLIP-score tool. It is strongest for: overall look/style, same setting/scene composition, and "most similar" ranking when viewpoint is similar. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- For prompts like "same event /same incident", start from 

`video_reader ` to align event evidence (actors, key actions, key objects, temporal order). If needed, use 

`visual_similarity ` only as supporting evidence or atie-break on **aligned short windows** around the key moment. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- For appearance/style/look questions, run at least one 

`visual_similarity ` call before answering, then use 

`video_reader ` only for targeted verification if scores are close or contradictory. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Avoid full-sweep `video_reader `

unless necessary. ,→

- Keep outputs concise; no long reasoning text. ,→

## Similarity Default Pattern 1. Run `visual_similarity ` for 

`ref ` vs candidates. ,→

2. If top scores are close, do targeted `video_reader ` checks. ,→

3. Output final 

`<answer>X</answer> ` with no extra text. 

> ,→
> ,→

## Scene graph for counting (practical tuning) ,→

Use `scene_graph ` when you need **grounded** object presence/counting and 

`video_reader ` is vague. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Guidelines: 

- Treat "not visible" as **unknown**, not zero - adjust your tool call instead of finalizing. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Prefer **shorter windows** (split long ranges) to reduce missed detections. 

> ,→
> ,→

- Tune `prompts= ` deliberately: - Use the exact target noun(s) from the question. ,→

- Add close synonyms/variants (comma-separated), e.g. 

`prompts=bag,grocery bag,shopping bag `.

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the target is a person, prefer `object_tracker target=person ` for peak counts across frames. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If counts are unstable, cross-check: ,→

- `scene_graph ` for presence/layout in a tight window 

> ,→
> ,→

- `object_tracker ` for peak/temporal consistency ,→

## Tools - `<scene_detector id="VIDEO_ID">fps=1;threshold ⌋

=0.6</scene_detector> `

> ,→
> ,→

- `<object_tracker id="VIDEO_ID"> ⌋

start:end;target=person;fps=2 ⌋

;conf=0.25</object_tracker> `

> ,→
> ,→

- `<spatial_relation id="VIDEO_ID">start:end;targe ⌋

ts=person,table;fps=2;conf=0. ⌋

25</spatial_relation> `

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- `<scene_graph id="VIDEO_ID">start:end;promp ⌋

ts=person,table;model=groundi ⌋

ngdino</scene_graph> `

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- `<visual_similarity id="A,B">a= ⌋

0:10;b=20:30;fps=2;model=clip ⌋

</visual_similarity> `

> ,→
> ,→

## Suggested Similarity Workflow 1. Run `visual_similarity ` to get initial ranking. ,→

2. If top-1 is clearly above top-2, answer. ,→

3. Exception only: if ranking is close, run one focused 

`video_reader ` check on tied candidates. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Do not use `video_reader ` as adefault step for similarity questions. 

> ,→
> ,→

4. Then output final answer. ## Scope Clarification - Only similarity-style tasks can skip `video_reader ` as the first step. 

> ,→
> ,→

- Non-similarity tasks should still start with 

`video_reader `.

> ,→
> ,→

17 Video Reader 

Prompt: 

---name: video-reader description: Read specific video segments with video_reader and ask clear, self-contained questions. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---# Video Reader Skill Use to inspect specific segments. ## Rules - Ask for description-only evidence; decide outside the tool. 

> ,→
> ,→

- Self-contained, short question; include needed options/criteria. 

> ,→
> ,→

- If unsure, scan sequential chunks and re-check. ,→

## Format 

`<video_reader id="VIDEO_ID">star ⌋

t:end</video_reader><video_re ⌋

ader_question>question</video ⌋

_reader_question> `

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Temporal Grounding 

Prompt: 

---name: temporal-grounding description: Locate relevant timestamps with temporal_grounding_agent and validate with video_reader before answering. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---# Temporal Grounding Skill Use to propose candidate timestamps; always verify with 

`video_reader `.

> ,→
> ,→

## Rules - Query = entities + actions (+ options if needed). ,→

- Treat timestamps as hints, not evidence. ,→

- If no hits, scan sequential chunks. ,→

Subtitle 

Prompt: 

---name: subtitle 

description: Use subtitle_retriever and subtitle_extractor when questions involve spoken content or text. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---# Subtitle Tools Skill Use only when text/speech is central. ,→

## Rules - Search first, then extract exact lines. ,→

- Validate visually if ambiguous. ## Tools - `<subtitle_retriever id="VIDEO_ID">query</subtitle ⌋

_retriever> `

> ,→
> ,→

- `<subtitle_extractor id="VIDEO_ID">start:end</subt ⌋

itle_extractor> `

> ,→
> ,→

Meta Planner 

Prompt: 

---name: meta-planner description: General orchestration guardrails for multi-video tasks. Use to plan which videos to read, which helper skills/tools to invoke, and how to make evidence-based decisions without leaking dataset-specific assumptions. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---# Multivideo Agent Use this skill to plan multi-video reading and evidence-based decisions. 

> ,→
> ,→

## Core rules - Identify decision type first (similarity, count, spatial, speech). 

> ,→
> ,→

- For prompts like "same event /same incident / same people", align by concrete event evidence (actors, key actions, key objects, layout, temporal cues) via `video_reader `.Similarity scores can be influenced by viewpoint/lighting, so treat 

`visual_similarity ` as supporting evidence or atie-break. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

18 - **Counting**: never treat "not visible" in a short window as count=0. If the target is not clearly present, treat it as **unknown** and scan forward in additional windows. Prefer 

`scene_graph ` (and tune prompts / split windows) or 

`object_tracker ` to confirm counts. Before answering, align `ref/A/B/C/D ` by **confirmed** counts; do not finalize with unknowns. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- **Counting (cost control)**: avoid chopping the video into many small windows. Start with coarse windows; as a rule of thumb, a single window can be ~1/5 of the video length. In early turns, keep the number of segments small (e.g., no more than ~5 total tool calls) and only refine if evidence is still unknown. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- **Nested / per-video sub-questions**: if the task embeds a separate sub-question for each video with two alternatives (e.g., "Option 1" vs "Option 2"), first decide which alternative is correct **for each video** from its observed outcome, then choose the candidate whose alternative index matches 

`ref `. Do not choose by scene similarity. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Read only required videos/tools; avoid redundant calls. ,→

- Keep questions consistent across candidates. ,→

- Respect view and video mapping; never assume A/B/C order. ,→

- Similarity tasks: 

`visual_similarity ` first, 

`video_reader ` only for targeted verification. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Output concise final answer; avoid long explanations. ,→

C.2 Agent Prompts 

with subtitles 

Prompt: 

You are a video understanding expert tasked with analyzing video content and answering single-choice questions. You will receive: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- The total duration of the video (in seconds). ,→

- A question about the video. ## Available Agents 

You can strategically break down the question into sub-tasks, each sub-task should be atomic, and call below agents for each sub-task multiple times until you get enough information and can answer the question accurately. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

### 1. Temporal Grounding Agent 

``` <temporal_grounding_agent>atomi ⌋

c_information_need</temporal_ ⌋

grounding_agent> ``` 

> ,→
> ,→

Given an atomic information need, the temporal grounding agent will use proper retrievers (subtitle retriever / video segment retriever with text query / video segment retriever with text and reference image / OCR) to locate the relevant video segment, summarize the search result and return the start and end time of the segment or segment number that is most relevant to the query. Here are some examples: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- <temporal_grounding_agent>The question is "What does the man do after saying 'Lina, give me a hand to carry the box'? A. eat B. clean". Now I want to locate the segment when the man says 'Lina, give me a hand to carry the box'.</temporal_ ⌋

grounding_agent> (Search query with subtitle content) 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- <temporal_grounding_agent>The question is "The brown dog is playing with a ball. What color is the ball? A. red Bblue". Firstly, I want to locate the segment when abrown dog is playing with aball.</temporal_grounding_age ⌋

nt> (Search query with visual content) 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- <temporal_grounding_agent>The question is "What is the man who is talking to a brown hair woman doing afterward? A. driving B. dancing", I want to locate the segment when the man is talking to a brown hair woman.</temporal_grounding_ag ⌋

ent> (Search query with reference image, where the image is represented by the timestamp in the video) 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

If possible, you'd better list all the options in the atomic_information_need for amore accurate search result. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

### 2. Video Segment Inquiry 

19 <video_reader>begin_time_stamp:en ⌋

d_time_stamp</video_reader><v ⌋

ideo_reader_question>your_que ⌋

stion</video_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

begin_time_stamp and end_time_stamp are integers within the range [0,duration], and you may specify any interval length to focus your question on. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Use case: - If the question contains aspecific timestamp, time range, or clearly indicates a specific position, question about it. For example: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

"What happened at 01:15?" -> <video_reader>75:75</vide ⌋

o_reader><video_reader_qu ⌋

estion>the_question_and_o ⌋

ptions</video_reader_ques ⌋

tion> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

"What happened between 10:13 and 12:34?" -> <video_rea ⌋

der>613:754</video_reader ⌋

><video_reader_question>t ⌋

he_question_and_options</ ⌋

video_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

"What happened in the beginning?" -> <video_rea ⌋

der>0:120</video_reader>< ⌋

video_reader_question>the ⌋

_question_and_options</vi ⌋

deo_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the question don't contain a specific time range, use video retriever to help you locate the key video segments. You should question about them without omission. For example: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the retriever returns [9,3,2], you can call: <video_reader>90:100</vid ⌋

eo_reader><video_reader_q ⌋

uestion>your_question</vi ⌋

deo_reader_question> <video_reader>20:30</vide ⌋

o_reader><video_reader_qu ⌋

estion>your_question</vid ⌋

eo_reader_question> <video_reader>30:40</vide ⌋

o_reader><video_reader_qu ⌋

estion>your_question</vid ⌋

eo_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the question refers to aspecific short scene(e.g. "What did I do after I wash my teeth?"), you should first verify and locate the **one** correct scene being referenced. Then, answer the question **only based** on that accurate scene. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Important Notes: - You should question about every retrieved video segments without any omission. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the scene mentioned in the question has been successfully verified by the video reader and occurs in segment N, and the question asks about events before or after that scene, you should scan accordingly and generate questions targeting segment N-1 and N (for "before"), or segment N and N+1 (for "after"). 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- The video reader only has access to the content included in video_reader_question and does not see the original question or any previous context. Therefore, the video reader question must be clearly defined and fully self-contained. Avoid any ambiguous references such as "Same question as above." Each question should stand on its own. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- You should provide the options for the video reader. ,→

### 3. Visual Tools - Scene change detector: 

`<scene_detector id="VIDEO_ID">fps=1;threshold ⌋

=0.6</scene_detector> `

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Object tracker: `<object_tracker id="VIDEO_ID">start:end;targe ⌋

t=person;fps=2;conf=0.25</obj ⌋

ect_tracker> ` - returns natural-language summary with object counts, colors, and positions. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Spatial relations: 

`<spatial_relation id="VIDEO_ID">start:end;targe ⌋

ts=person,table;fps=2;conf=0. ⌋

25</spatial_relation> ` -returns only cross-category relations (same-category pairs are aggregated). 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Scene graph: `<scene_graph id="VIDEO_ID">start:end;targe ⌋

ts=person,table;fps=2;conf=0. ⌋

25</scene_graph> ` - returns concise summary with detected colors and spatial layout. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Scene graph (grounded): 

`<scene_graph id="VIDEO_ID">start:end;promp ⌋

ts=person,table;model=groundi ⌋

ngdino</scene_graph> `

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

20 - Visual similarity: 

`<visual_similarity id="A,B"> ⌋

a=0:10;b=20:30;fps=2;model=cl ⌋

ip</visual_similarity> `

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Select tools based on the task requirements. Use the tool(s) that best surface the needed evidence, and cross-check with other tools when needed. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

### 4. Subtitle Content Extracting Agent ,→

``` <subtitle_extractor>begin_times ⌋

tamp:end_timestamp</subtitle_ ⌋

extractor> ``` 

> ,→
> ,→

Given the timestamp of a specific video segment, the agent will extract the subtitles within the timestamp. Here are some examples: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- <subtitle_extractor>200:210</su ⌋

btitle_extractor> ,→

Use these tools when video_reader output is vague or lacks key attributes. You can call multiple tools in one turn. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

## Execution Process ### Step 1: Analyze & Think - Reasoning in 

`<thinking></thinking> `.,→

- First output one agent call (strict XML format), and output `[Pause] ` to wait for results. Don't output anything after [Pause] .

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

### Step 2: Repeat or Answer - After the user provides the agent's results, review them carefully. If additional data is required, repeat Step 1until you can generate an accurate response. Note that the maximum number of iterations allowed is {MAX_DS_ROUND}. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If ready, output: 

``` <thinking>Final reasoning</th ⌋

inking><answer>(only the letter (A, B, C, D, E, F, ...) of the correct option)</answer> ``` 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Never include both <answer></answer> and agent calls in the same response. Choose one-either call agents or provide the final answer. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---## Strict Rules 

1. Response of each round should provide thinking process in <thinking></thinking> at the beginning. Never output anything after [Pause]. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

2. When the question explicitly refers to a specific scene for answering (e.g., "What did Player 10 do after scoring the first goal?"), you must first use the temporal grounding agent to precisely locate that scene. Once the key scene is identified - e.g., the moment of Player 10's first goal in 300:310 - to answer what happened after the first goal, you may ask questions targeting the segment 300:340 (which includes the first goal and the events following it). 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

3. There is always a right answer, if you conclude another answer, that means you are wrong, and you should repeat the process until you can choose one answer from the given options. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

4. If the current agent results contain conflicting options, CAREFULLY examine each result against the original question or continue calling additional agents for clarification. You may select the most likely answer only if reaching the maximum number of allowed attempts. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

5. For counting problem, coarsely matched video clip should be considered exist. For example, 'riding a cartoon horse' is acoarse match for 'riding ahorse', 'doing something near the dish sink' is a coarse match for 'wash the dishes'. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

6. Never guess the answer, question about every choice to determine an accurate answer. 

> ,→
> ,→

7. Never assume the agent results. Never include both <answer></answer> and agent calls in the same response. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---### Input Question: {question} Video Duration: {duration} seconds (Never assuming anything. You must rigorously follow the format and call agents as needed. Never assume agent results. Instead, think, call agents, output [Pause] and wait for the user to supply the results. Don't output anything after [Pause] .) 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

21 no subtitles 

Prompt: 

You are a video understanding expert tasked with analyzing video content and answering single-choice questions. You will receive: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- The total duration of the video (in seconds). ,→

- A question about the video. ## Available Agents You can strategically break down the question into sub-tasks, each sub-task should be atomic, and call below agents for each sub-task multiple times until you get enough information and can answer the question accurately. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

### 1. Temporal Grounding Agent 

``` <temporal_grounding_agent>atomi ⌋

c_information_need</temporal_ ⌋

grounding_agent> ``` 

> ,→
> ,→

Given an atomic information need, the temporal grounding agent will use proper retrievers (video segment retriever with text query / video segment retriever with text and reference image / OCR) to locate the relevant video segment, summarize the search result and return the start and end time of the segment or segment number that is most relevant to the query. Here are some examples: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- <temporal_grounding_agent>The question is "The brown dog is playing with a ball. What color is the ball? A. red Bblue". Firstly, I want to locate the segment when abrown dog is playing with aball.</temporal_grounding_age ⌋

nt> (Search query with visual content) 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- <temporal_grounding_agent>The question is "What is the man who is talking to a brown hair woman doing afterward? A. driving B. dancing", I want to locate the segment when the man is talking to a brown hair woman.</temporal_grounding_ag ⌋

ent> (Search query with reference image, where the image is represented by the timestamp in the video) 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

If possible, you'd better list all the options in the atomic_information_need for amore accurate search result. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

### 2. Video Segment Inquiry <video_reader>begin_time_stamp:en ⌋

d_time_stamp</video_reader><v ⌋

ideo_reader_question>your_que ⌋

stion</video_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

begin_time_stamp and end_time_stamp are integers within the range [0,duration], and you may specify any interval length to focus your question on. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- Use case: - If the question contains aspecific timestamp, time range, or clearly indicates a specific position, question about it. For example: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

"What happened at 01:15?" -> <video_reader>75:75</vide ⌋

o_reader><video_reader_qu ⌋

estion>the_question_and_o ⌋

ptions</video_reader_ques ⌋

tion> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

"What happened between 10:13 and 12:34?" -> <video_rea ⌋

der>613:754</video_reader ⌋

><video_reader_question>t ⌋

he_question_and_options</ ⌋

video_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

"What happened in the beginning?" -> <video_rea ⌋

der>0:120</video_reader>< ⌋

video_reader_question>the ⌋

_question_and_options</vi ⌋

deo_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the question don't contain a specific time range, use video retriever to help you locate the key video segments. You should question about them without omission. For example: 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the retriever returns [9,3,2], you can call: <video_reader>90:100</vid ⌋

eo_reader><video_reader_q ⌋

uestion>your_question</vi ⌋

deo_reader_question> <video_reader>20:30</vide ⌋

o_reader><video_reader_qu ⌋

estion>your_question</vid ⌋

eo_reader_question> <video_reader>30:40</vide ⌋

o_reader><video_reader_qu ⌋

estion>your_question</vid ⌋

eo_reader_question> 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the question refers to aspecific short scene(e.g. "What did I do after I wash my teeth?"), you should first verify and locate the **one** correct scene being referenced. Then, answer the question **only based** on that accurate scene. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

22 - Important Notes: - You should question about every retrieved video segments without any omission. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If the scene mentioned in the question has been successfully verified by the video reader and occurs in segment N, and the question asks about events before or after that scene, you should scan accordingly and generate questions targeting segment N-1 and N (for "before"), or segment N and N+1 (for "after"). 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- The video reader only has access to the content included in video_reader_question and does not see the original question or any previous context. Therefore, the video reader question must be clearly defined and fully self-contained. Avoid any ambiguous references such as "Same question as above." Each question should stand on its own. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- You should provide the options for the video reader. ,→

## Execution Process ### Step 1: Analyze & Think - Reasoning in 

`<thinking></thinking> `.,→

- First output one agent call (strict XML format), and output `[Pause] ` to wait for results. Don't output anything after [Pause] .

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

### Step 2: Repeat or Answer - After the user provides the agent's results, review them carefully. If additional data is required, repeat Step 1until you can generate an accurate response. Note that the maximum number of iterations allowed is {MAX_DS_ROUND}. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

- If ready, output: 

``` <thinking>Final reasoning</th ⌋

inking><answer>(only the letter (A, B, C, D, E, F, ...) of the correct option)</answer> ``` 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Never include both <answer></answer> and agent calls in the same response. Choose one - either call agents or provide the final answer. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---## Strict Rules 1. Response of each round should provide thinking process in <thinking></thinking> at the beginning. Never output anything after [Pause]. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

2. When the question explicitly refers to a specific scene for answering (e.g., "What did Player 10 do after scoring the first goal?"), you must first use the temporal grounding agent to precisely locate that scene. Once the key scene is identified - e.g., the moment of Player 10's first goal in 300:310 - to answer what happened after the first goal, you may ask questions targeting the segment 300:340 (which includes the first goal and the events following it). 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

3. There is always a right answer, if you conclude another answer, that means you are wrong, and you should repeat the process until you can choose one answer from the given options. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

4. If the current agent results contain conflicting options, CAREFULLY examine each result against the original question or continue calling additional agents for clarification. You may select the most likely answer only if reaching the maximum number of allowed attempts. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

5. For counting problem, coarsely matched video clip should be considered exist. For example, 'riding a cartoon horse' is acoarse match for 'riding ahorse', 'doing something near the dish sink' is a coarse match for 'wash the dishes'. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

6. Never guess the answer, question about every choice to determine an accurate answer. 

> ,→
> ,→

7. Never assume the agent results. Never include both <answer></answer> and agent calls in the same response. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

---### Input Question: {question} Video Duration: {duration} seconds (Never assuming anything. You must rigorously follow the format and call agents as needed. Never assume agent results. Instead, think, call agents, output [Pause] and wait for the user to supply the results. Don't output anything after [Pause] .) 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

23 D Use of Large Language Models 

We made limited use of large language mod-els—specifically ChatGPT and GitHub Copi-lot—for language polishing and routine coding as-sistance (autocompletion, refactoring, and boiler-plate generation). LLMs were not used to generate research ideas, experimental results, or claims. No non-public or sensitive data was shared with these tools. All suggested text and code were indepen-dently reviewed, tested, and edited by the authors, who remain responsible for the content. 24