Title: Hybrid Retriever Evolution for Multimodal Document Reasoning Agents

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.29648v1

Published Time: Tue, 30 Jun 2026 01:49:20 GMT

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# Hybrid Retriever Evolution for Multimodal Document Reasoning Agents 

Bohan Yao 12 Shruthan Radhakrishna 1 Vikas Yadav 11ServiceNow 2University of Washington 

vikas.yadav@servicenow.com 

## Abstract 

Different retrievers, including lexical, semantic, and multimodal approaches, pro-vide highly complementary strengths for multimodal document understanding, yet most systems combine them through fixed pipelines that cannot adapt to the demands of individual reasoning steps. In this work, we ask whether retrieval orchestration itself can be learned as part of the reasoning process. We introduce a failure-driven evolution framework in which a meta-agent autonomously discovers how a tool-using task agent should coordinate diverse retrievers during multi-step document question answering. The meta-agent analyzes incorrect reasoning tra-jectories, actively probes the same tool environment to diagnose root causes, and iteratively rewrites the task agent’s instructions, turning retrieval from a fixed front-end stage into an adaptive, step-wise reasoning decision. The evolved agent learns when to invoke each retriever, how to combine them, and how to compose evidence across modalities and pages. On MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench, the evolved agent achieves gains of up to +19 .6 points over the unevolved baseline and consistently outperforms recent systems including MACT, MDocAgent, and SimpleDoc. Detailed retrieval analyses confirm that these improvements arise from adaptive routing and evidence composition rather than reliance on any hard-coded retrieval mode, and evolution dynamics reveal a progressive shift from narrow lexical behavior to rich multi-tool coordination. These findings establish autonomous multi-agent coordination as a promising paradigm for multimodal document reasoning. 

## 1 Introduction 

Multimodal documents such as scientific papers, financial reports, manuals, and business presentations communicate information through a rich mixture of text, tables, figures, charts, and layout structure. Answering questions over such documents is therefore not merely a retrieval problem: it is a long-horizon reasoning problem that requires localizing evidence scattered across pages, integrating signals from multiple modalities, and reconciling partial or contradictory cues. Recent benchmarks such as MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench make this challenge starkly clear: many questions demand cross-page and cross-modal evidence aggregation, and even the strongest current systems still fall far short of robust performance [Ma et al., 2024, Zou et al., 2024]. These trends suggest that progress depends not only on stronger foundation models, but on fundamentally better mechanisms for evidence access and coordination. A central difficulty is that no single retrieval paradigm is sufficient across all reasoning steps in these tasks. Lexical retrievers such as BM25 are effective for exact keyword matching and narrow grounding [Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009]; semantic text retrievers such as ColBERT improve conceptual matching and fine-grained relevance estimation [Khattab and Zaharia, 2020]; multimodal retrievers such as ColPali capture visual and layout-dependent cues directly from document pages [Faysse et al., 2024]. Prior work has shown the value of each retriever individually, and several 

> Preprint.
> arXiv:2606.29648v1 [cs.CL] 28 Jun 2026

recent systems combine text and image retrieval in hybrid pipelines [Han et al., 2025, Jain et al., 2025]. However, most existing approaches still treat retrieval as a fixed front-end stage or rely on static fusion schemes, missing opportunities for dynamic adaptation when the most useful retriever changes from one reasoning step to the next, and when retrieved evidence must be filtered, compared, reconciled, or composed before it becomes useful. In this paper, we investigate whether autonomous multi-agent systems can discover how to utilize and combine diverse retrievers for multimodal document reasoning. Our key question is not which retriever is universally best, but whether an autonomous system can learn to use different retrievers meaningfully at different reasoning steps. Our framework pairs a tool-using task agent with a failure-driven meta-agent that improves it over time. The task agent answers document questions by deciding which tools to call, how to combine retrieved evidence, and when to stop. The meta-agent works offline: it inspects failed trajectories, actively explores the same tool environment to diagnose why the agent went wrong, and rewrites its instructions so that future trajectories use the toolbox more effectively. In this view, retrieval is no longer a static preprocessing module; it becomes an adaptive component of multi-step reasoning. This perspective complements prior work on improved retrievers and document agents: it asks whether autonomous multi-agent coordination can turn a diverse retrieval toolbox into an adaptive reasoning mechanism. Our experiments provide evidence that failure-driven evolution can indeed discover stronger retrieval coordination strategies. With Gemini 3.1 Flash, the evolved agent improves from 42 .4% to 62 .0% 

on MMLongBench-Doc and from 73 .4% to 85 .1% on DocBench; with GPT-5-mini, from 40 .7% to 

55 .4% and from 68 .6% to 79 .3% . These gains are consistent across both benchmarks and backbones, and the evolved agent compares favorably with recent systems such as MACT, MDocAgent, and SimpleDoc. Importantly, the key message is not that our system achieves the highest numbers, but that it demonstrates a qualitatively different view of retrieval in multimodal document QA. The agent is not given a better retrieval pipeline; it discovers one through experience. Retrieval analyses confirm that ColPali is the strongest single retriever, yet substantial headroom remains from adaptive routing and fusion. Evolution analyses further reveal a non-monotonic but consistent shift from narrow early behavior toward richer multi-tool coordination. Together, the message is clear: strong multimodal document QA needs better retrieval decisions , not just stronger standalone retrievers. Our main contributions are as follows: • We show that retrieval in multimodal document QA can be treated as an adaptive reasoning decision rather than a fixed preprocessing step, enabling an agent to decide when and how to use lexical, semantic, and multimodal retrievers across reasoning steps. • We introduce a failure-driven evolution framework in which a meta-agent analyzes failed trajectories, probes the same tool environment, and rewrites the task agent’s instructions to discover stronger retrieval-and-reasoning strategies. • Across MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench, the evolved agent achieves consistent gains across two backbone models, improving by up to +19 .6 points over the unevolved baseline without changing the retrievers, tools, or backbone. • Our retrieval and evolution analyses show that the gains come from adaptive routing, evidence composition, and asymmetric complementarity among retrievers, rather than reliance on any single dominant retrieval mode. 

## 2 Related Work 

Recent progress in multimodal document question answering has been driven by two complementary trends: stronger retrieval for long, visually rich documents, and more capable agentic reasoning pipelines built on top of retrieved evidence. Our work sits at the intersection of both, asking whether retrieval orchestration itself can be learned as part of the reasoning process. 

Retrieval for multimodal documents On the retrieval side, lexical methods such as BM25 remain effective for precise term matching and evidence localization [Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009], while late-interaction dense retrievers such as ColBERT improve semantic matching through fine-grained token-level relevance estimation [Khattab and Zaharia, 2020]. More recently, multimodal retrievers such as ColPali have demonstrated that embedding document pages as images captures layout, visual structure, and non-textual cues that text-only pipelines miss [Faysse et al., 2024]. 2Together, these lines of work show that different retrieval paradigms offer distinct and complementary strengths for document understanding. Rather than proposing yet another retriever, we build on this complementarity and study how an agent can discover when each retriever is useful .

Long-document multimodal QA Benchmarks such as DocVQA, InfographicVQA, and ChartQA established the importance of reasoning over visually structured documents [Appalaraju et al., 2021, Mathew et al., 2022, Masry et al., 2022]. More recent long-document benchmarks such as MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench push this further by emphasizing cross-page localization, multimodal evidence aggregation, and long-horizon reasoning over documents spanning dozens or hundreds of pages [Ma et al., 2024, Zou et al., 2024]. These benchmarks expose a core tension in current systems: the challenge is no longer merely to retrieve relevant context, but to retrieve the 

right kind of evidence at the right step of the reasoning process, often across multiple modalities and pages. This reveals a regime where retrieval can no longer be a one-shot preprocessing step; the system must iteratively gather and refine evidence as the reasoning state evolves. 

Agentic document QA and multi-agent systems: Recent document agents have moved beyond single-pass retrieval, but most still preserve fixed retrieval structure. MDocAgent uses specialized agents for text and image processing within a predefined multi-stage pipeline in which retrieval roles are assigned in advance [Han et al., 2025]. SimpleDoc shows that a lightweight iterative framework with a dual-cue retriever can be effective, yet its retrieval mechanism is built around a fixed design rather than dynamically selecting among different retrievers [Jain et al., 2025]. MACT demonstrates the value of multi-agent collaboration and test-time scaling for visual document understanding, but its main innovation lies in role-specialized reasoning rather than learning how retrieval should adapt across steps [Yu et al., 2025]. More broadly, LLM multi-agent frameworks such as AutoGen and AgentVerse show that decomposition and coordination improve complex tasks [Wu et al., 2023, Chen et al., 2023]; our setting is narrower, focusing on how document agents should route retrieval and compose evidence . These methods show that decomposition, iteration, and collaboration matter, but stop short of treating retrieval orchestration as a learned reasoning problem. Our method is also related to approaches that improve LLM systems by optimizing prompts, modules, or execution strategies. DSPy and related work treat language-model pipelines as systems that can be compiled or optimized rather than hand-tuned [Khattab et al., 2023], while large language models have been used directly as optimizers over prompts and procedures [Yang et al., 2023]. 

## 3 Method 

Figure 1 provides an overview of our approach. We introduce a failure-driven prompt evolution framework (Algorithm 1) in which a highly capable meta-agent ( Mevolve ) diagnoses the failures of a task agent ( Magent ), actively explores the document environment to understand the context of each failure, and proposes systematic improvements to the agent’s core instructions. The framework contains two complementary roles. The task agent answers document questions by iteratively querying retrieval and auxiliary tools, deciding at each step which evidence to gather and how to compose it. The meta-agent operates offline during evolution: it observes failed task-agent trajectories, actively investigates why they failed by probing the same tool environment with executable analysis code, and rewrites the task agent’s instructions so that future trajectories use the retrieval toolbox more effectively. At inference time, only the evolved task agent is deployed. 

3.1 Task Agent and Tool Environment 

The task agent operates over long multimodal documents by iteratively querying external tools and updating an internal scratchpad. We equip the agent with a diverse toolset: lexical retrieval with BM25, semantic retrieval with ColBERT, multimodal page retrieval with ColPali, a VLM-based page retrieval tool, and auxiliary utilities such as a calculator when explicit arithmetic is required. Crucially, the agent can call one tool or several in sequence, compare their outputs, impose additional conditions over retrieved evidence, and continue searching if the current evidence is incomplete or contradictory. The agent’s behavior is dictated by two primary instruction blocks. The system prompt Psys defines the agent’s overarching strategy: decompose the question, decide whether more retrieval is needed, reconcile intermediate evidence from different modalities, and answer only once the evidence is sufficient. The tool parser Ptool dictates the syntax and logic for invoking external tools and specifies how retrieved outputs should be converted back into the agent’s reasoning context. 3Figure 1: Overview of the failure-driven evolution framework for adaptive multimodal document reasoning. The task agent 

(left) answers document questions through iterative multi-step reasoning, deciding at each step which retrieval tool to invoke (lexical via BM25, semantic via ColBERT, multimodal via ColPali, or VLM-based retrieval) and how to compose, reconcile, and validate evidence drawn from different modalities and pages. When the task agent produces an incorrect answer, the 

meta-agent (right) receives the full failed trajectory together with the gold answer, then actively explores the same tool environment by generating and executing analysis code against BM25, ColBERT, ColPali, and the VLM tool. Through this interactive debugging, analogous to a human developer probing retrievers and inspecting returned evidence, the meta-agent diagnoses the root cause of the failure and proposes targeted updates to the task agent’s system prompt ( Psys ) and tool-use parser ( Ptool ). Proposed updates are accepted only if they strictly improve aggregate performance on a held-out validation batch, guarding against overfitting to individual failure cases. Over successive iterations, this process yields progressively stronger retrieval coordination and evidence composition strategies. At inference time, only the evolved task agent is deployed. 

This separation is useful in practice because the system prompt encodes high-level reasoning behavior while the tool parser governs the mechanics of tool use. 

3.2 Failure-Driven Evolution 

To improve the task agent, we introduce the prompt evolution procedure detailed in Algorithm 1. The evolution process is initialized with seed prompts and occurs over N discrete iterations. Each iteration comprises four distinct phases: failure discovery, interactive exploration, prompt evolution, and empirical selection. 

Failure discovery: Rather than optimizing against generic instructions, we target concrete empirical failures. The current task agent is run over a validation pool until it produces an incorrect answer. We store the failed question, the gold answer, the associated document, and the full trajectory T of tool calls and intermediate reasoning that led to the mistake. 4Algorithm 1 Failure-driven prompt evolution. Each iteration: (1) find a failure, (2) actively probe the tool environment to diagnose it, (3) propose prompt edits, (4) keep edits only if they improve the validation batch. 

Require: Validation dataset D, seed system prompt P(0) 

> sys

, seed tool parser P(0) 

> tool

Require: Number of iterations N , exploration turns Texpl , batch size B

Require: Task agent model Magent , meta-agent model Mevolve  

> 1:

Psys ← P (0)  

> sys
> 2:

Ptool ← P (0)  

> tool
> 3:

for i = 1 . . . N do  

> 4:

Step 1: Failure discovery  

> 5:

(q, a, d ) ← None  

> 6:

for each problem in D do  

> 7:

ˆa, T ← RunAgent (Magent , Psys , Ptool , question , doc ) 

> 8:

score ← EvalScore (ˆ a, answer ) 

> 9:

if score ̸ = 1 .0 then  

> 10:

(q, a, d ) ← (question , answer , doc ) 

> 11:

break  

> 12:

end if  

> 13:

end for  

> 14:

Step 2: Interactive exploration  

> 15:

H ← { (q, a, d, Psys , Ptool , T )} 

> 16:

for t = 1 . . . T expl do  

> 17:

Ct ← M evolve (H) 

> 18:

Rt ← Execute (Ct) 

> 19:

H ← H ∪ { Rt} 

> 20:

end for  

> 21:

Step 3: Prompt evolution  

> 22:

ˆPsys , ˆPtool ← M evolve (H) 

> 23:

Step 4: Evaluation and selection  

> 24:

Sample batch B ⊂ D of size B 

> 25:

Sold ← P 

> j∈B

EvalScore (RunAgent (Magent , Psys , Ptool , q j , d j ), a j ) 

> 26:

Snew ← P 

> j∈B

EvalScore (RunAgent (Magent , ˆPsys , ˆPtool , q j , d j ), a j ) 

> 27:

if Snew > S old then  

> 28:

Psys ← ˆPsys  

> 29:

Ptool ← ˆPtool  

> 30:

end if  

> 31:

D ← D \ { (q, a, d )} 

> 32:

end for  

> 33:

return Psys , Ptool 

Interactive exploration: A failed trajectory alone is often not enough to diagnose why the agent broke. Because document QA requires nuanced understanding of document structure and visual layout, static analysis is often insufficient. The meta-agent therefore receives the failed trajectory together with the gold answer and is allowed to actively explore the same tool environment for Texpl 

turns. During this phase, the meta-agent generates executable Python code that interfaces directly with the agent’s exact toolset (BM25, ColBERT, ColPali, or the VLM retrieval tool) and inspects the returned text, page references, or bounding-box evidence. This interactive debugging mimics a human developer inspecting variables and executing test queries to understand why a system failed: the meta-agent does not guess blindly, it probes the environment. 

Prompt evolution: Following the exploration phase, the meta-agent synthesizes its findings. It analyzes the gap between the agent’s trajectory and the ground truth, conditioned on the newly retrieved document context, and proposes an updated system prompt ˆPsys and tool parser ˆPtool .These edits can change how the task agent prioritizes retrievers, when it invokes multiple tools in conjunction, how it validates and reconciles evidence, and when it uses auxiliary computation. 

Empirical selection: We do not accept edits just because they sound clever. To prevent catastrophic forgetting and ensure the proposed prompts generalize beyond the specific failure case, we rigorously 5evaluate each update before adopting it. We instantiate two parallel agents, the current agent and the candidate agent, and evaluate both on a randomly sampled validation batch. The update is kept if and only if the new agent achieves a strictly higher aggregate score. Finally, to ensure continuous exposure to novel challenges, the failure case utilized for the current iteration is dropped from the active dataset pool. We repeat this process over multiple iterations and use the strongest evolved checkpoint for final evaluation. 

## 4 Experiments 

Benchmarks and Metrics: We evaluate on two challenging multimodal document QA benchmarks that stress the long-horizon, cross-modal reasoning our framework addresses: MMLongBench-Doc 

and DocBench [Ma et al., 2024, Zou et al., 2024]. Both require evidence scattered across multiple pages and modalities, precisely the setting where adaptive retrieval coordination matters most. For end-to-end evaluation, we report the official benchmark QA score as a percentage. For retrieval-focused experiments, we report page-level precision, recall, and F1 against gold evidence pages. For oracle routing analysis, we additionally report results on the 853 answerable MMLongBench-Doc examples for which gold-evidence-based routing diagnostics are well defined. 

Models, Tools, and Baselines: Our task agent is evaluated with two LLM backbones in the main comparison: Gemini 3.1 Flash and GPT-5-mini . To verify that the observed retrieval trends generalize across reader architectures, the reader-side oracle study additionally includes Qwen3-VL-8B and Ministral-3-14B-R . Crucially, the tool environment is held fixed across all agent variants. The retrieval pool contains BM25 for lexical search, ColBERT for semantic retrieval, ColPali for multimodal page retrieval, and a VLM-based retriever; the evolved system additionally invokes auxiliary tools when explicit arithmetic is required. By holding tools constant, we isolate the effect of a better retrieval-and-reasoning policy from the confound of giving the evolved agent a richer environment. We compare against baselines spanning simple prompting to recent agentic systems. 

CoT answers directly with chain-of-thought prompting without retrieval. File API gives the base model direct access to the full document without our adaptive controller. MACT , MDocAgent , and 

SimpleDoc are recent agentic or retrieval-augmented document QA systems [Yu et al., 2025, Han et al., 2025, Jain et al., 2025]. Baseline Agent (Ours) is the unevolved task agent with the same backbone and tools as our final system. Evolved Agent (Ours) uses the same backbone and tools, but with prompts and tool-use policy discovered through the evolution procedure. We also evaluate ablation variants that remove ground-truth access during evolution, substitute a weaker meta-agent, or disable interactive exploration, to isolate each component’s contribution. 

Evolution and Evaluation Protocol: We initialize the system with a seed system prompt and tool parser, then run the failure-driven evolution loop from Algorithm 1. In each iteration, the meta-agent identifies an incorrect validation trajectory, actively probes the tool environment to diagnose the failure, proposes targeted edits to the task agent’s instructions, and keeps them only if they improve a validation batch. This produces progressively refined task agents rather than a single one-shot prompt edit. For the main benchmark comparison, we report the strongest evolved checkpoint. For the evolution-dynamics study, we report all 20 checkpoints to reveal how both performance and tool-use behavior change over time. For the retriever and oracle studies, we use controlled retrieval setups to separate three effects: the quality of individual retrievers, the headroom from better routing and fusion, and the extent to which stronger retrieval translates into stronger downstream QA. Oracle settings serve only as upper-bound diagnostics and are not realizable at test time. 

## 5 Results 

End-to-end performance: We evaluate the framework end-to-end, directly testing the central question: can retrieval orchestration be learned as part of the reasoning process? Table 1 provides a clear affirmative answer. With Gemini 3.1 Flash, evolution delivers gains of 19 .6 and 11 .7 points on MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench; with GPT-5-mini, the gains are 14 .7 and 10 .7 points. These improvements are notable because the baseline and evolved agents share the same backbone and tools; only the retrieval-and-reasoning policy changes. The unevolved agent can trail specialized systems such as SimpleDoc or MACT; the performance jump comes only after the meta-agent rewrites how the task agent searches, validates, and composes evidence. This reveals why the multi-agent approach offers something qualitatively different from fixed retrieval pipelines: the agent does not benefit from better tools, but from discovering when to use each retriever and how to compose their outputs. 6Model Method Evolved? † MMLongBench-Doc DocBench                                                                      

> Gemini-3.1-Flash
> CoT ×40.4% 66.1% File API ×45.4% 71.7% MACT ×54.4% 79.7% MDocAgent ×51.2% 78.6% SimpleDoc ×56.6% 82.2%
> Baseline Agent (Ours) ×42.4% 73.4%
> Evolved Agent, No Ground Truth (Ours) ✓58.4% 84.0%
> Evolved Agent, GPT-5-minimal Meta Agent (Ours) ✓56.1% 79.8%
> Evolved Agent, No Exploration (Ours) ✓57.4% 77.3%
> Evolved Agent (Ours) ✓62.0% 85.1%
> GPT-5-mini
> CoT ×36.2% 57.4% File API ×44.6% 72.1% MACT ×47.4% 73.3% MDocAgent ×44.0% 70.1% SimpleDoc ×51.3% 74.8%
> Baseline Agent (Ours) ×40.7% 68.6%
> Evolved Agent, No Ground Truth (Ours) ✓54.9% 75.6%
> Evolved Agent, GPT-5-minimal Meta Agent (Ours) ✓52.8% 75.6%
> Evolved Agent, No Exploration (Ours) ✓55.5% 74.8%
> Evolved Agent (Ours) ✓55.4% 79.3%
> Table 1: End-to-end QA results on MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench. The baseline and evolved agents share the same backbone and tool environment; evolution changes only the retrieval-and-reasoning policy . Ablation variants isolate ground-truth supervision, meta-agent capability, and interactive exploration. The evolved agent achieves gains of +19 .6and +11 .7
> points with Gemini 3.1 Flash and +14 .7and +10 .7with GPT-5-mini, consistently outperforming all baselines. †Evolved? indicates that the agent’s instructions were refined through evolution; the tool environment is held fixed across all rows.

This is what the framework was designed to isolate (Section 3): stronger document QA from better retrieval decisions, not richer tools. 

Ablation analysis :Table 1 further reports three ablation variants that isolate each design decision in the evolution framework, testing which components of the meta-agent’s four-phase process are essential. No Ground Truth withholds gold answers during evolution, forcing the meta-agent to identify failures without oracle supervision; performance drops modestly ( 58 .4% vs. 62 .0% on MMLongBench-Doc with Gemini), suggesting the framework remains effective even under weaker supervision. GPT-5-minimal Meta Agent substitutes a smaller meta-agent; the consistent drop across both benchmarks and backbones confirms that meta-agent capability meaningfully influences evolution quality, consistent with the view that diagnosing retrieval failures in complex documents requires strong reasoning. No Exploration removes the interactive tool-probing phase (Step 2 of Algorithm 1), the component that lets the meta-agent actively query the same tools as the task agent; the gap is most pronounced on DocBench ( 77 .3% vs. 85 .1% with Gemini), underscoring that active exploration is especially valuable for visually rich documents where static trajectory analysis is insufficient. Together, these confirm that each component contributes to the final result. 

Retrieval quality: Table 2 consolidates retriever comparison and downstream QA: the left columns report page-level evidence recovery (precision, recall, F1), while the right columns report QA accuracy with four reader models. BM25 and VLM retrieval provide useful recall but limited F1; ColBERT improves through semantic matching; ColPali performs substantially better than single-retriever baselines, highlighting the importance of multimodal page representations. These patterns confirm that retriever strength alone cannot explain the evolved agent’s gains; the diversity across retrieval paradigms creates the opportunity for adaptive orchestration that evolution exploits. 

Oracle headroom. The oracle configurations reveal significant untapped headroom beyond any single retriever. Oracle 1 (per-query best-retriever selection) improves over ColPali, confirming retriever complementarity even when one retriever dominates on average. Oracle 2 (union of ColBERT and ColPali top-10 ) reaches high recall but lower precision, showing that naive expansion increases coverage at the cost of noise. Oracle 3a (gold-only filtering) performs below the ColPali baseline :overly restrictive filtering removes helpful context the reader needs to reason correctly. Oracle 3b (gold-prioritized with ColPali backfill) approaches the gold ceiling most closely, showing that successful evidence composition requires both page prioritization and retention of useful surrounding context. The QA columns confirm these patterns carry through to end-task performance across all four readers. Taken together, the key opportunity lies not in choosing a better retriever, but in learning 7Evidence Recovery End-to-End QA (MMLongBench-Doc) Method Prec. Recall F1 Qwen3-VL-8B Ministral-3-14B-R GPT-5-mini Gemini 3.1 Flash 

VLM retrieval (Qwen2-VL-2B) 17.5 48.2 23.3 46.8 42.1 47.8 47.2 Lexical retrieval (BM25) 16.9 55.6 24.3 35.7 28.6 36.3 34.6 Semantic retrieval (ColBERT) 18.3 59.4 26.1 47.0 37.8 44.3 45.2 Multimodal retrieval (ColPali) 24.1 77.2 34.3 52.8 43.0 49.6 52.7 Oracle 1 † (best retriever per query) 25.9 81.9 36.7 53.7 42.9 56.2 44.8 Oracle 2 † (ColBERT + ColPali, top-10 ) 18.1 82.9 27.8 59.2 51.5 56.2 56.7 Oracle 3a (gold-only fused evidence) 90.7 82.9 85.3 40.4 38.0 40.1 34.8 Oracle 3b (gold-prioritized fusion + fill) 32.0 93.4 43.9 57.6 46.7 53.1 55.8 Gold ceiling 100.0 100.0 100.0 66.7 64.1 65.8 60.2 

Table 2: Retrieval quality and end-to-end QA on MMLongBench-Doc. Left: page-level evidence recovery. Right: QA accuracy with four reader models. ColPali is the strongest single retriever, but oracle routing and fusion reveal substantial headroom from adaptive selection and evidence composition. †Oracle 1 and Oracle 2 are diagnostic upper bounds, not realizable test-time systems. 30 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60   

> MMLongBench-Doc Accuracy (%)
> 35.1
> 39.2
> 37.4
> 44.5
> 48.7
> 45.4
> 47.0
> 49.3 50.1
> 47.1
> 48.3
> 50.8
> 44.9
> 52.1
> 49.2
> 57.4
> 48.7
> 46.0
> 55.1 55.4

(a) QA Performance Across Evolution Iterations 

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 

Evolution Iteration 

0

200 

400 

600 

800 

1000                      

> Tool Invocations (count)
> 152
> 37 23
> 83 74
> 184
> 83 95
> 218
> 101 97 71 96 87 73
> 160
> 113 92 103 62
> 68 51
> 83 74
> 178
> 83
> 107
> 218
> 101 97
> 72
> 96 86 69
> 160
> 113
> 91 103
> 61
> 68
> 57
> 82 74
> 184
> 83
> 107
> 218
> 101 97
> 72
> 96
> 87
> 73
> 160
> 113
> 92
> 103
> 62
> 41 87
> 82
> 74
> 181
> 81
> 93
> 214
> 101 96
> 71
> 96
> 84
> 61
> 154
> 113
> 91
> 101
> 61
> 83
> 74
> 176
> 25
> 76
> 134
> 43
> 30
> 28
> 62
> 72
> 159
> 112
> 92
> 103
> 62

(b) Per-Tool Usage Across Evolution Iterations     

> BM25 ColBERT ColPali VLM LLM

Figure 2: Evolution dynamics across 20 iterations. (a) QA accuracy improves non-monotonically from 35 .1 to a peak of 57 .4

(iteration 15), settling at 55 .4. (b) Stacked tool invocation counts show a shift from narrow BM25 dominance (iteration 0: 152 

of 218 calls) toward balanced multi-tool coordination. High-performing checkpoints do not correspond to any single dominant tool, confirming that gains arise from better orchestration. 

how to select the right retriever at each step and compose their outputs into coherent evidence. This is precisely the capability the evolved multi-agent system discovers through failure-driven evolution. 

## 6 Analysis 

We probe why the evolved agent improves through two main lenses: evolution dynamics (§6.1) and failure complementarity (§6.2). A detailed oracle routing analysis is provided in Appendix B. 

6.1 Evolution Dynamics Across Iterations 

Does the evolution procedure from Section 3 produce genuinely different retrieval policies, or merely surface-level prompt variation? Figure 2 answers this question by tracking both QA performance and per-tool invocation shares across all 20 iterations. Performance rises from 35 .1 at iteration 0 to a peak of 57 .4 at iteration 15 , settling at 55 .4 by iteration 19 . The trajectory is non-monotonic because each update targets a specific failure, but the overall trend reflects exploration and consolidation. Crucially, the tool-usage panel shows that high-performing checkpoints do not achieve gains by favoring one tool: early lexical dominance (BM25: 152 of 218 calls at iteration 0) gives way to 8Method P R F1 Hit Miss                                    

> VLM-all 17.5 48.2 23.3 56.4 43.6 BM25 16.9 55.6 24.3 66.6 33.4 ColBERT 18.3 59.4 26.1 71.7 28.3 ColPali 24.1 77.2 34.3 86.1 13.9
> Agent-VLM 37.8 61.5 42.7 70.1 29.9 Agent-LLM 28.3 44.8 31.4 53.0 47.0 Agent-BM25s 14.0 46.2 20.2 54.8 45.2

Table 3: Top-5 retrieval on 854 answerable MMLongBench-Doc questions. C OL PALI 

leads in coverage ( 86 .1% hit rate); A GENT -VLM leads in precision and F1. VLM-all BM25 ColBERT ColPali Ag-VLM Ag-LLM Ag-BM25s VLM-all BM25 ColBERT ColPali Ag-VLM Ag-LLM Ag-BM25s – 57 65 .3 76 .9 55 .4 37 .1 47                                      

> 43 .9–41 .466 .358 .938 .913
> 46 .731 –67 .459 .540 .933 .1
> 27 .719 .333 .6–37 .832 .820 .2
> 34 .954 .161 .671 –34 .951
> 41 .656 .664 .380 58 .6–33 .4
> 49 35 .858 75 .467 .630 .8–
> 80%
> 47%
> 13% Rescue rate (%)
> Rescuer (method B) Failed method (A)

Figure 3: Rescue-rate heatmap. Each cell reports the percentage of method A’s misses (zero gold pages in top-5) that method B rescues. COL PALI (fourth column) rescues 66 –80% of every other method’s failures. When ColPali itself fails, only Agent-VLM provides meaningful rescue ( 37 .8% ). 

balanced multi-tool coordination. The benefit lies in learning when to use each retriever, consistent with the complementarity pattern from Table 1 and the oracle study (Appendix B). 

6.2 Failure Complementarity Across Retrievers 

Table 3 reports top-5 retrieval quality on 854 answerable questions. C OL PALI achieves the best recall and hit rate ( 86 .1% ), while A GENT -VLM leads on precision and F1, revealing a natural division between broad coverage and precise retrieval. The rescue-rate heatmap (Figure 3) makes this complementarity concrete. Notably, C OL PALI is the best rescuer for every other method ( 66 –80% of misses rescued), explaining its standalone dominance throughout the paper. When C OL PALI itself fails, A GENT -VLM is the only meaningful rescuer ( 37 .8% ); since C OL PALI misses only 13 .9% of the answerable set, roughly one quarter of its failures are unrescuable, identifying a hard residual subset. Meanwhile, BM25 and A GENT -BM25 S overlap heavily (rescue rate 13 .0% , the matrix minimum), whereas C OL BERT and A GENT -VLM form the most complementary pair ( ∼ 60 .5% symmetric rescue rate), confirming that semantic text and agent-guided visual retrieval capture different evidence. Together, the analyses converge: routing headroom is real and structured, the agent progressively discovers it through evolution, and it lives in asymmetric rescue relationships across retrieval modes. 

## 7 Conclusion 

We opened this paper by asking whether retrieval in multimodal document QA should remain a fixed front-end stage or become an adaptive part of reasoning itself. The evidence points emphatically to the latter. By pairing a tool-using task agent with a failure-driven meta-agent that diagnoses incorrect trajectories, explores the document tool environment, and iteratively rewrites the task agent’s instructions, we show that this process discovers stronger retrieval coordination strategies, yielding substantial gains on MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench across multiple LLM backbones. The supporting analyses reinforce this from multiple directions: ColPali is the strongest single retriever, yet oracle experiments (Appendix B) reveal clear headroom from adaptive routing; evolution transforms the agent from narrow lexical behavior toward rich multi-tool coordination; and failure-complementarity analysis confirms that this headroom lies in structured rescue relationships across retrieval modes. Crucially, these gains arise from stronger retrieval policies, not superficial prompt variation. More broadly, instead of improving a fixed retrieval pipeline, we investigate whether retrieval usage itself can be evolved as part of reasoning. Potential applications span scientific, legal, and enterprise domains where navigating long, multimodal reports reliably is critical. Deployment carries risks: incorrect evidence composition could mislead users on sensitive documents, and more capable agents may encourage over-reliance on opaque systems. We hope this work helps shift multimodal document QA toward systems in which accessing and composing evidence is a deliberate, step-wise reasoning decision rather than a predetermined pipeline. 9References 

Srikar Appalaraju, Ujjwal Jasper, Bhargavi Kota, Yuchen Xie, and Raghavendra Manmatha. Docvqa: A dataset for vqa on document images. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision , pages 2200–2209, 2021. Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Zhiyuan Yuan, Chi-Min Chan, Heyang Yu, Yaxi Lu, Yi-Hsin Hung, Chen Qian, et al. Agentverse: Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and exploring emergent behaviors. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10848 , 2023. Manuel Faysse, Hugues Sibille, Tony Wu, Bilel Omrani, Gautier Viaud, Céline Hudelot, and Pierre Colombo. Colpali: Efficient document retrieval with vision language models. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , 2024. Siwei Han, Peng Xia, Ruiyi Zhang, Tong Sun, Yun Li, Hongtu Zhu, and Huaxiu Yao. Mdocagent: A multi-modal multi-agent framework for document understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.13964 ,2025. Chelsi Jain, Yiran Wu, Yifan Zeng, Jiale Liu, Shengyu Dai, Zhenwen Shao, Qingyun Wu, and Huazheng Wang. Simpledoc: Multi-modal document understanding with dual-cue page retrieval and iterative refinement. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.14035 , 2025. Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. Colbert: Efficient and effective passage search via contextualized late interaction over bert. In Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , 2020. Omar Khattab, Arnav Singhvi, Paridhi Maheshwari, Zhiyuan Zhang, Christopher Potts, and Matei Zaharia. Dspy: Compiling declarative language model calls into self-improving pipelines. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.03714 , 2023. Yubo Ma, Yuhang Zang, Liangyu Chen, Meiqi Chen, Yizhu Jiao, Xinze Li, Xinyuan Lu, Ziyu Liu, Yan Ma, Xiaoyi Dong, Liangming Pan, Pan Zhang, Jiaqi Wang, Yixin Cao, and Aixin Sun. Mmlongbench-doc: Benchmarking long-context document understanding with visualizations. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01523 , 2024. Ahmed Masry, Do Long, Jiaqi Tan, Shafiq Joty, and Enamul Hoque. Chartqa: A benchmark for question answering about charts with visual and logical reasoning. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022 , pages 2263–2279, 2022. Minesh Mathew, Dimosthenis Karatzas, and C. V. Jawahar. Infographicvqa. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision , pages 1697–1706, 2022. Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. The probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and beyond. In Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval , volume 3, pages 333–389, 2009. Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang, Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, et al. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08155 , 2023. Chengrun Yang, Xuezhi Wang, Yifeng Lu, Hanxiao Liu, Quoc V. Le, Denny Zhou, and Xinyun Chen. Large language models as optimizers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.03409 , 2023. Xinlei Yu, Zhangquan Chen, Yudong Zhang, Shilin Lu, Ruolin Shen, Jiangning Zhang, Xiaobin Hu, Yanwei Fu, and Shuicheng Yan. Visual document understanding and question answering: A multi-agent collaboration framework with test-time scaling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.03404 ,2025. Anni Zou, Wenhao Yu, Hongming Zhang, Kaixin Ma, Deng Cai, Zhuosheng Zhang, Hai Zhao, and Dong Yu. Docbench: A benchmark for evaluating llm-based document reading systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10701 , 2024. 10 Reader N ColBERT ColPali Best Oracle 1 Oracle 2 Oracle 3a Oracle 3b Gold O1 O2 O3a O3b O3b → Gold ans. baseline ceiling gain gain gain gain gap                                           

> Qwen3-VL-8B 853 43.1 52.1 52.1 53.7 57.1 51.2 58.6 59.2 1.6 5.0 -1.0 6.5 0.6 Ministral-3-14B-R 853 33.8 41.1 41.1 42.9 48.6 48.2 45.8 55.8 1.8 7.5 7.1 4.8 10.0 GPT-5-mini 853 39.8 48.9 48.9 50.2 53.3 48.4 52.8 56.3 1.3 4.4 -0.5 3.9 3.5
> Table 4: Oracle routing and fusion on the 853 answerable MMLongBench-Doc examples. Selectively combining ColBERT and ColPali consistently outperforms either alone, confirming retriever complementarity across all reader models.

## A Limitations 

While the failure-driven evolution framework produces substantial gains, several limitations deserve acknowledgment. 

Benchmark scope. We evaluate on two benchmarks, MMLongBench-Doc and DocBench, that emphasize long, multimodal documents. These are among the most challenging current benchmarks, and we further test across two LLM backbones (Gemini 3.1 Flash and GPT-5-mini) to verify that the gains are not model-specific. That said, generalization to other document distributions, such as scanned historical archives, heavily templated forms, or multilingual documents, remains untested. The retrieval strategies discovered by evolution may be specific to the kinds of documents and questions represented here. Extending evaluation to a broader set of document types and languages is a natural next step. 

Computational cost. The evolution loop could be compute-intensive: each of the N = 20 iterations involves running the task agent to discover a failure, executing Texpl exploration turns with the meta-agent, and evaluating both the old and new agent on a validation batch. Importantly, the empirical selection step prevents wasted computation by discarding updates that do not improve validation performance, and the evolved agent at inference time adds no overhead beyond the unevolved baseline since only the refined prompt is deployed. The remaining gap is the absence of detailed runtime and cost breakdowns, which limits practitioners’ ability to assess practical trade-offs. A systematic study of how performance scales with fewer iterations or smaller exploration budgets, and whether evolved policies can be distilled into cheaper forms, would make the approach more practical for resource-constrained settings. 

Interpretability of evolved policies. The meta-agent rewrites the task agent’s system prompt and tool parser in natural language, but the resulting policies are not easily interpretable as explicit retrieval-routing rules. Our evolution-dynamics and failure-complementarity analyses (Sections 6.1 and 6.2) provide indirect interpretability by revealing which tools the agent learns to favor and how rescue relationships shift, but they do not explain why a specific retriever is chosen at a specific reasoning step. Distilling evolved prompts into explicit, inspectable routing policies, for example through learned decision trees or retriever-selection classifiers, is a promising direction that would make the approach both more transparent and more transferable. 

## B Oracle Analysis of Retriever Routing and Fusion 

We test retriever complementarity on 853 answerable MMLongBench-Doc examples under four increasingly favorable retrieval assumptions, with a gold ceiling providing gold pages directly. Table 4 reveals three findings. Oracle 1 (per-query best-retriever selection) and Oracle 2 (answer-level routing that runs both pipelines and keeps the better answer) both improve over the best single retriever, with Oracle 2 yielding larger gains. This confirms that ColBERT–ColPali complementarity is real and that how evidence interacts with downstream reasoning matters as much as retriever quality alone. Strikingly, Oracle 3a (gold-only pages) can underperform the ColPali baseline: overly restrictive filtering removes helpful auxiliary context. Oracle 3b (gold pages prioritized, remaining slots filled from ColPali) approaches the gold ceiling most closely ( 58 .6% vs. 59 .2% for Qwen3-VL-8B). The bottleneck is learning which retriever to call at each step and how to compose their outputs ,precisely the routing capability that failure-driven evolution targets directly. 11 NeurIPS Paper Checklist 

1. Claims 

Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the paper’s contributions and scope? Answer: [Yes] Justification: The abstract and Introduction summarize the method, scope, and main empirical findings, and the main claims are supported by the Results and Analysis sections. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims made in the paper. • The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the contribu-tions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A [No] or [N/A] answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers. • The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how much the results can be expected to generalize to other settings. • It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals are not attained by the paper. 2. Limitations 

Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors? Answer: [Yes] Justification: A dedicated Limitations section discusses single-run evaluation, benchmark scope, computational cost, stopping criterion and stability, and interpretability of evolved policies. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper has no limitation while the answer [No] means that the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper. • The authors are encouraged to create a separate “Limitations” section in their paper. • The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to vi-olations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings, model well-specification, asymptotic approximations only holding locally). The authors should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the implications would be. • The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated. • The authors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach. For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle technical jargon. • The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms and how they scale with dataset size. • If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to address problems of privacy and fairness. • While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by review-ers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an important role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations. 3. Theory assumptions and proofs 

Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and a complete (and correct) proof? Answer: [N/A] Justification: The paper is empirical and does not contain formal theorems or proofs. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not include theoretical results. • All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and cross-referenced. • All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems. 12 • The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short proof sketch to provide intuition. • Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented by formal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material. • Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced. 4. Experimental result reproducibility 

Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main experimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)? Answer: [Yes] Justification: Method and Experiments describe the task/meta-agent setup, tools, benchmarks, baselines, metrics, and evaluation protocol used to produce the reported results. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not include experiments. • If the paper includes experiments, a [No] answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not. • If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken to make their results reproducible or verifiable. • Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways. For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are appropriate to the research performed. • While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submissions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the nature of the contribution. For example (a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how to reproduce that algorithm. (b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe the architecture clearly and fully. (c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct the dataset). (d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility. In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in some way (e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results. 5. Open access to data and code 

Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instructions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental material? Answer: [No] Justification: The submission does not include an anonymized code release; results are reported on public benchmarks and with cited existing tools and models. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that paper does not include experiments requiring code. • Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines ( https://neurips.cc/ public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy ) for more details. • While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be possible, so [No] is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source benchmark). 13 • The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines ( https://neurips.cc/ public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy ) for more details. • The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc. • The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they should state which ones are omitted from the script and why. • At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized versions (if applicable). • Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted. 6. Experimental setting/details 

Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyperparameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer) necessary to understand the results? Answer: [Yes] Justification: Experiments specifies the benchmarks, metrics, backbones, retrieval tools, baselines, and checkpoint-selection protocol used in the evaluation. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not include experiments. • The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them. • The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental material. 7. Experiment statistical significance 

Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate information about the statistical significance of the experiments? Answer: [No] Justification: The paper shows results over multiple iterations highlighting a broader trend of improvements. Further, gains in our study seem to be reasonably high compared to all the baselines our work compares with. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not include experiments. • The authors should answer [Yes] if the results are accompanied by error bars, confidence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support the main claims of the paper. • The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall run with given experimental conditions). • The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula, call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.) • The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors). • It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error of the mean. • It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should preferably report a 2-sigma error bar than state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis of Normality of errors is not verified. • For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g., negative error rates). • If error bars are reported in tables or plots, the authors should explain in the text how they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text. 8. Experiments compute resources 

Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the computer resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce the experi-ments? Answer: [No] Justification: We have reported frontier models that were used in our experiments. All of the artifacts in our experiments are publicly available, including the frontier models with which we report our scores. 14 Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not include experiments. • The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster, or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage. • The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual experi-mental runs as well as estimate the total compute. • The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that didn’t make it into the paper). 9. Code of ethics 

Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines ?Answer: [Yes] Justification: The work is benchmark-based research on document QA and was conducted to the best of our knowledge in accordance with the NeurIPS Code of Ethics. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics. • If the authors answer [No], they should explain the special circumstances that require a deviation from the Code of Ethics. • The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consideration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction). 10. Broader impacts 

Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative societal impacts of the work performed? Answer: [Yes] Justification: The Conclusion briefly discusses both beneficial applications of document QA and risks from misuse or over-trust on sensitive documents. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that there is no societal impact of the work performed. • If the authors answer [N/A] or [No], they should explain why their work has no societal impact or why the paper does not address societal impact. • Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses (e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations (e.g., deploy-ment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact specific groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations. • The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied to par-ticular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to generate Deepfakes for disinformation. On the other hand, it is not needed to point out that a generic algorithm for optimizing neural networks could enable people to train models that generate Deepfakes faster. • The authors should consider possible harms that could arise when the technology is being used as intended and functioning correctly, harms that could arise when the technology is being used as intended but gives incorrect results, and harms following from (intentional or unintentional) misuse of the technology. • If there are negative societal impacts, the authors could also discuss possible mitigation strategies (e.g., gated release of models, providing defenses in addition to attacks, mechanisms for monitoring misuse, mechanisms to monitor how a system learns from feedback over time, improving the efficiency and accessibility of ML). 11. Safeguards 

Question: Does the paper describe safeguards that have been put in place for responsible release of data or models that have a high risk for misuse (e.g., pre-trained language models, image generators, or scraped datasets)? Answer: [N/A] Justification: The paper does not release a new general-purpose foundation model, scraped dataset, or other high-risk asset. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper poses no such risks. 15 • Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing safety filters. • Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images. • We recognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best faith effort. 12. Licenses for existing assets 

Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and properly respected? Answer: [No] Justification: The paper credits benchmarks and prior systems via citations, but it does not enumerate license terms for every external asset in the submission. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not use existing assets. • The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset. • The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a URL. • The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset. • For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of service of that source should be provided. • If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the package should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets has curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the license of a dataset. • For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided. • If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to the asset’s creators. 13. New assets 

Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation provided alongside the assets? Answer: [N/A] Justification: The submission does not introduce a new benchmark, dataset, or public model release. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not release new assets. • Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their sub-missions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license, limitations, etc. • The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose asset is used. • At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file. 14. Crowdsourcing and research with human subjects 

Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as well as details about compensation (if any)? Answer: [N/A] Justification: The work does not involve crowdsourcing or other human-subject data collection. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects. • Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribution of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be included in the main paper. • According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation, or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data collector. 15. Institutional review board (IRB) approvals or equivalent for research with human subjects 

16 Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB) approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or institution) were obtained? Answer: [N/A] Justification: The work does not involve human subjects research requiring IRB review. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects. • Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent) may be required for any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you should clearly state this in the paper. • We recognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the guidelines for their institution. • For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if applicable), such as the institution conducting the review. 16. Declaration of LLM usage 

Question: Does the paper describe the usage of LLMs if it is an important, original, or non-standard component of the core methods in this research? Note that if the LLM is used only for writing, editing, or formatting purposes and does not impact the core methodology, scientific rigor, or originality of the research, declaration is not required. Answer: [Yes] Justification: LLMs are core components of both the task agent and the meta-agent, and their role is described in Method and Experiments. Guidelines: • The answer [N/A] means that the core method development in this research does not involve LLMs as any important, original, or non-standard components. • Please refer to our LLM policy in the NeurIPS handbook for what should or should not be described. 17