Title: The Red Queen Gödel Machine: Co-Evolving Agents and Their Evaluators

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.26294v1

Published Time: Fri, 26 Jun 2026 00:12:14 GMT

Number of Pages: 37

Markdown Content:
# The Red Queen Gödel Machine: Co-Evolving Agents and Their Evaluators 

> Alex Iacob 1* , Andrej Jovanović 1,3* , William F. Shen 1* , Daniel Burkhardt 2, Meghdad Kurmanji 1, Nurbek Tastan 4, Lorenzo Sani 1,3 , Niccolò Alberto Elia Venanzi 2, Ambroise Odonnat 5, Zeyu Cao 1, Bill Marino 1, Xinchi Qiu 1, Nicholas D. Lane 1,3
> 1

University of Cambridge 2NVIDIA 3Flower Labs 4MBZUAI 5Inria *Equal contribution. 

Abstract. Self-improving agents are state-of-the-art (SOTA) on agentic coding benchmarks and have recently been extended to general domains. However, their search methods generally as-sume a stationary evaluation criterion: a fixed verifier, benchmark, or labeled dataset that re-mains valid as the agent improves. This ignores a central feature of evolution: species do not optimize against a static environment, but adapt as their environments change with them. We aim to bring the same principle to recursive self-improvement, making evaluation part of the im-provement loop and opening search to evolving evaluators, adversarial objectives, and dynamic utilities that may surpass static benchmarks. We introduce the Red Queen Gödel Machine (RQGM )1, an evolutionary framework for recursive self-improvement under non-stationary util-ities. We make this possible through controlled utility evolution : search is organized into epochs with a fixed within-epoch evaluation criterion, while the utility can be updated at epoch bound-aries, so self-improvement guarantees hold per epoch as the objective evolves across them. This mechanism is instantiated by co-evolving the utility itself, using learned evaluators that improve alongside the task agents they guide. The current preprint provides a preliminary empirical in-vestigation. We begin by showing that even on verifiable coding tasks, the RQGM improves test pass rate over the prior SOTA by adding a complementary agent-as-a-judge code-review signal. Because the reviewer is queried once while standard coding agents require multi-turn evaluation, this signal is cheaper and the RQGM uses 1.35 ×–1.72 × fewer tokens. We then turn to scientific paper writing and reviewing, and Olympiad-level proof writing and grading, where the RQGM 

improves performance over prior self-improving agents: co-evolved writers reach 1.78 ×–1.86 ×

higher acceptance rates under a diverse agent-as-a-judge panel, while co-evolved graders reach 

9% higher ground-truth accuracy. Because the RQGM can modify the search objective across epochs, it can also regularize the search process itself. In paper reviewing, the strongest baseline reviewer over-accepts AI -generated papers at up to 1.91 × the human rate. We correct this with the RQGM by introducing an adversarial objective that discovers reviewers equally stringent on 

AI and human work. We intend to explore longer search horizons in future updates.   

> Keywords: self-improving agents, learned evaluation, multi-agent systems, auto-mated scientific discovery, controlled utility evolution, co-evolutionary search CambridgeMachineLearningSystemsLab
> mlsys.cst.cam.ac.uk

## 1 Introduction 

Self-improving agents aim to turn local improvements in coding and reasoning into a recursive loop, where each stronger agent can produce better variants of itself. Search methods such as the Dar-win and Huxley Gödel Machines [2, 3] recently set the open-source state-of-the-art on agentic cod-ing tasks by editing their own code and retaining variants that improve an external utility signal. 

HyperAgents [4] then extended this self-improvement beyond coding to task agents in arbitrary domains. Despite this progress, current search methods still depend on stationary evaluation fixed outside the improvement loop, unlike biological evolution, where each species adapts to competitors that evolve in turn. This dependence also constrains self-improvement in three settings: when a target task has no direct benchmark, for example paper writing and proof writing lack one while paper re-viewing and proof grading do not [5–7]; when evaluation is slow or weakly informative [8–10]; and when static benchmarks saturate or become vulnerable to reward hacking as agents improve [11, 12]. Addressing these concerns is a prerequisite for extending self-improvement to open-ended settings like scientific research and writing. We therefore introduce the Red Queen Gödel Machine ( RQGM ),an evolutionary framework that treats evaluation as part of the search process. We study this through 

co-evolved learned evaluators, which improve alongside the task agents they guide, defining the 

> 1

Named after Van Valen’s Red Queen hypothesis [1]: species adapt to maintain fitness relative to co-evolving competitors.                 

> arXiv:2606.26294v1 [cs.LG] 24 Jun 2026 70 80 90 100 110 120
> Search tokens (millions, blended) ↓
> 62%
> 64%
> 66%
> 68%
> 70%
> 72%
> 74%
> Held-out  pass rate (%)  ↑
> 1.72 × fewer tokens
> 1.35 × fewer tokens
> tokens saved to exceed the pass rate of the baseline
> RQGM coder (generalist)
> RQGM coder (specialist)
> HGM-H coder
> 020 40 60 80 100 120
> Search tokens (millions, blended) ↓
> 35%
> 40%
> 45%
> 50%
> 55%
> 60%
> 65%
> 70%
> 75%
> 80%
> Best-belief utility ( ε = 0.05 ) ↑
> code-review utility code-review on
> RQGM coder (generalist)
> RQGM coder (specialist)
> HGM-H coder
> evaluator replacement

Figure 1: RQGM exceeds the prior SOTA HGM-H on Polyglot with 1.35 ×–1.72 × fewer search tokens by adding a cheap evolved code reviewer. Left: held-out pass rate vs. search cost; arrows give the tokens RQGM saves to exceed the baseline’s rate, and the heart marks the run’s best agent. 

Right: best-belief utility during search. At each evaluator replacement (crowned dashed rule), the utility drops as selective erasure discards records scored by the displaced reviewer, then re-climbs under its replacement; shaded bands mark epochs. Full details in Sec. 4 and Sec. 4.1. search utility. Such an evaluator can supply the search signal when no benchmark exists, add cri-teria a benchmark cannot capture, like code maintainability, or provide a cheaper evaluation proxy. The core mechanism enabling this co-evolution is controlled utility evolution , which divides search into evolutionary epochs . Within an epoch, one evaluator is frozen and grades every task agent, sup-plying a stationary utility signal; the utility can change only at epoch boundaries. In parallel, the search co-evolves challenger evaluators in a codebase shared with their task agents and scores them against a held-out ground-truth dataset. At an epoch boundary, a challenger replaces the frozen eval-uator only if it statistically outperforms the incumbent on this ground truth; the RQGM then applies 

selective erasure , discarding only utility records that depended on the replaced evaluator. Because each epoch is therefore a fixed-criterion search problem , prior self-improvement guarantees apply directly (Sec. 3 and App. F), while the search objective can evolve across epochs, for instance by promoting a stronger evaluator or adding an adversarial-sample regularizer. We provide a preliminary empirical investigation of the RQGM across three domains following Zhang et al. [4]: coding [13]; paper writing and reviewing [14, 15]; and proof writing and grading [4, 7]. On verifiable coding tasks, the RQGM reaches a held-out pass rate of 71.7 % against the prior SOTA’s 

69 .9% (Fig. 1) by adding an agent-as-a-judge code reviewer. Its quality signal complements test execution, improving the pass rate, while requiring fewer tokens compared to multi-turn coding agent execution. This illustrates a broader advantage of co-evolution: shared expansions can im-prove multiple utilities at once (see Fig. 9). We then turn to scientific paper writing and reviewing, and Olympiad-level proof writing and grading, where the RQGM outperforms prior self-improving agents: co-evolved writers raise the acceptance rate of their papers from the prior SOTA’s 21 .8% to 

40.5 % (Tab. 1), while a co-evolved grader exceeds the static baselines with a 3× lower search cost than the prior SOTA (Fig. 5). We further observe that as evaluators strengthen across epochs, they may impose a curriculum-like effect on the task agents, with each transition re-ranking the archive (Figs. 3 and 4). Co-evolution can also regularize evaluators: the strongest baseline reviewer over-accepts AI -generated papers relative to human ones [16], but the RQGM ’s evolutionary epochs let us first gather 

AI -generated samples that a frozen evaluator accepts, then replay them as adversarial samples in later epochs, producing a reviewer equally stringent on machine and human work (Fig. 6). 

We believe the RQGM points toward a class of self-improving co-evolving systems in which agents and evaluators recursively bootstrap one another without further human intervention to reach capabilities beyond those of static evaluation . If successful, this could be a meaningful step toward more capable 

AI systems, at the cost of loosening convergence guarantees compared to static evaluation criteria. 

2Contributions:    

> 1. Recursive Self-Improvement under Non-Stationary Utilities. The

RQGM extends self-improving agents beyond fixed external evaluation by treating the utility signal as part of the search process. This allows search objectives to evolve, opening self-improvement to learned non-stationary utilities (Sec. 3). 2. Controlled Utility Evolution. We make non-stationary utilities compatible with prior self-improvement guarantees via controlled utility evolution : search runs in fixed-evaluator epochs, and the objective changes only at epoch boundaries. A challenger evaluator is promoted only when it raises an 𝜖 -best-belief score on ground truth, a lower bound its utility exceeds with probability 1 − 𝜖 (Sec. 3 and App. F). 3. Practical Benefits of Co-Evolved Learned Evaluators and Search Interventions. Empirically, co-evolution adds a cheap learned code-review signal that improves search efficiency even where a verifier exists (Sec. 5.1), enables generator search where direct benchmarks are unavailable (Sec. 5.2), and en-ables debiasing over-lenient evaluators through adversarial objectives (Sec. 5.4). 

## 2 Related Work 

Self-Improving AI . The Gödel Machine [17, 18] is a theoretical construct that improves itself through self-modification whenever it can prove a change beneficial, while meta-learning instead optimizes the learning dynamics directly [19, 20]. A line of recent systems makes the Gödel Ma-chine empirical by replacing its intractable proof search with archive search over observed utility: the Darwin-Gödel Machine ( DGM ) [2] ranks self-modifying coding agents by benchmark utility, the Huxley-Gödel Machine ( HGM ) [3] scores a node by the utility of its whole descendant clade rather than its own, and HyperAgents [4] lifts self-modification beyond coding by giving each archive node a meta-agent/task-agent pair. Related efforts self-modify full code repositories [21–23], refine prompts [24] or reasoning traces [25], or self-tune for a specific domain [26], with some restricted to hill-climbing rather than open-ended exploration [27]. What unites them is a fixed evaluation crite-rion held outside the loop for the duration of a run, which leaves them open to reward hacking [28] and to the position, verbosity, and self-preference biases of model-based judges [16, 29, 30]. Updat-ing the criterion over time is one response, but benchmark creation is costly [11, 12] and any change forces the search to restart. We instead co-evolve the evaluator with the agents it scores, extending self-improvement to domains that have no direct benchmark at all. 

LLM-as-a-Judge and Automated Scientific Discovery. Our learned evaluators build on the use of LLMs as judges [29, 31], benchmarked for their agreement with human preferences [15]. Automated-discovery pipelines apply such judges at scale, but, like the self-improving systems above, hold their evaluations fixed per run [6, 14, 32–35]; we instead let the judge itself improve as the search proceeds. 

Multi-Agent Co-Evolution. Co-evolution against a moving target is a classical idea: fitness shar-ing [36] and self-modifying policies [37] co-adapt populations, and self-play pits an agent against stronger versions of itself [38, 39]. Recent LLM-agent methods carry this to interacting agents but keep the evaluation fixed [40, 41], and human– AI co-improvement adapts the signal based on feed-back [42]. RQGM co-evolves the evaluator automatically, so the target is the learned utility itself. 

Open-Endedness. Open-ended search aims to keep generating novel artifacts [43, 44], often by maintaining quality-diversity archives [45, 46], and is increasingly driven by foundation models [14, 34, 47] in pursuit of the long-standing goal of a closed self-referential loop [48]. These methods still evaluate against a static objective; co-evolving the objective is the missing piece RQGM supplies. 

## 3 RQGM : Co-Evolving Agents and Their Evaluators 

We introduce the Red Queen Gödel Machine , dubbed RQGM , a recursive self-improvement frame-work in which learned evaluators improve alongside the agents they score (Fig. 2). Building on the search method of prior systems [2–4], RQGM makes four modifications: (i) each archive node is a multi-agent workspace rather than a single agent; (ii) evaluators are themselves learned agentic pro-cesses; (iii) the utility functions driving the search may change at designated evolutionary epochs; and (iv) evaluators may be replaced at such points. We review the search method in Sec. 3.1, introduce the multi-agent formulation in Secs. 3.2 and 3.3 and the co-evolutionary mechanisms in Secs. 3.4 and 3.5. Algorithm 1 shows the full procedure while App. F provides theory. 3archive         

> best belief
> Thompson sampling
> on
> node roles shared workspace
> role tasks scored by
> generator slot
> generator slot
> evaluator ground truth
> evaluator
> fills
> ground truth
> fills
> role-uniform & task-balanced within a role
> frozen epoch
> checkpoint selection
> -best belief on GT anchor
> re-frozen
> selective erasure
> checkpoints are exponentially-spaced

Figure 2: RQGM searches over a multi-agent workspace tree containing both learnable task agents and evaluators. At each step, a node is selected by Thompson sampling over clade metapro-ductivity and either expanded by a meta-agent or evaluated. Evaluators are scored against a ground-truth anchor and task agents by their epoch-local frozen evaluator or a fixed benchmark for evaluator-independent roles. At checkpoints, each frozen slot compares its incumbent against challenger eval-uators on a ground-truth anchor; then the 𝜖 -best-belief evaluator is frozen for the next epoch and the utility records from the displaced evaluator are erased (Algorithm 1). 

3.1 Preliminaries: Self-Improvement as Tree Search 

Following Wang et al. [3], we formulate self-improvement as a tree search over a growing archive of agent nodes T𝑡 , initialized with a seed node T0 = {𝑎 0 }. At every step 𝑡 ∈ N, the search either modi-fies a node 𝑎 ∈ T 𝑡 , adding the edited copy as a child of 𝑎 , or evaluates a node on a task , recording a binary outcome 𝑜 ∈ { 0, 1}. These binary outcomes are aggregated into scores counting the number of successes 𝑆 𝑎 ∈ N and failures 𝐹 𝑎 ∈ N the node accumulates over several evaluations. When the allocated search evaluation budget 𝐵 ∈ N is exhausted, the highest-scoring archive node is returned. Because a node’s own success rate may poorly predict what its descendants will achieve, we follow the HGM [3] and adopt clade metaproductivity (CMP ) as the search utility: the success rate pooled over a node’s clade 𝐶 (𝑎 ), defined as the subtree rooted at 𝑎 , with nodes selected for expansion or eval-uation by Thompson sampling over these clade-level outcomes. Letting 𝑛 𝐶  

> success

(𝑎 ), 𝑛 𝐶  

> failure

(𝑎 ) ∈ N

accumulate the successes and failures of all nodes in clade 𝐶 (𝑎 ), we define: 

öCMP (𝑎 ) = 𝑛 𝐶  

> success

(𝑎 )

𝑛 𝐶  

> success

(𝑎 ) + 𝑛 𝐶  

> failure

(𝑎 ) ∈ [ 0, 1].

The final agent is selected by 𝜖 -best-belief score 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑎 ) = 𝐼 −1 

> 𝜖

(1 + 𝑆 𝑎 , 1 + 𝐹 𝑎 ) ∈ [ 0, 1], where 

𝜖 ∈ ( 0, 1) is a confidence level and 𝐼 −1 

> 𝜖

is the inverse regularized incomplete Beta function, i.e., the 

𝜖 -quantile of the Beta posterior over the agent’s successes 𝑆 𝑎 and failures 𝐹 𝑎 , a conservative utility estimate. For a repeatable evaluation criterion, CMP suffices to approximate the Gödel Machine [3]. 

3.2 Search Space Multi-agent architecture. To co-evolve agents and evaluators, we formulate each archive node 

𝑎 not as a single agent but as a shared, evolvable workspace populated by 𝐾 ∈ N agentic roles 

R = {𝑟 1, . . . , 𝑟 𝐾 } composed of task agents and evaluators. Every role 𝑟 ∈ R has its own task pool D𝑟 , a finite set of tasks on which it is scored, each 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑟 contributing a utility signal. A paper-reviewer role, for instance, might serve two such tasks: reviewing human-written and agent-generated papers. Because each task belongs to a single role, a task uniquely identifies its role; fol-lowing HyperAgents , we therefore call a role’s agent a task agent wherever the role is unambigu-ous. Each node is allocated a meta-agent that oversees the workspace and can modify it during the search [4]. Since the meta-agent and role-agent code are editable, roles may re-use each other’s code if the meta-agent deems it useful. Only the scoring and orchestration harness is fixed. 

Learned evaluators. Open-ended roles such as paper writing admit no ground-truth signal and require learned evaluators. We call such roles evaluator-dependent , in contrast to evaluator-independent roles with a fixed benchmark. Each evaluator-dependent role is scored through an evalu-ator slot replaceable during search; its epoch index counts replacements. Since the 𝑀 ≤ 𝐾 evaluator-dependent slots are replaced independently, we collect their epoch indices into an epoch vector 𝒋 =

( 𝑗 1, . . . , 𝑗 𝑀 ) ∈ N𝑀 . Replacing a slot’s evaluator advances its entry N𝑀 ∋ 𝒋 → 𝒋 ′ ∈ N𝑀 (Sec. 3.5), so each evaluator evolves with its role while staying epoch-stationary. 4Utility definition. Utility aggregates bottom-up through two uniform averages, first over a role’s tasks and then over roles, so that the search is equally rewarded for optimizing all roles. 2 The base quantity is 𝑝 𝑟 ,𝑑, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) ∈ [ 0, 1], node 𝑎 ’s expected binary success rate on task 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑟 under epoch vector 𝒋 ;the 𝒋 subscript makes this success rate, and hence all utilities built from it, epoch-local. Averaging uniformly over a role’s tasks gives the per-role rate 𝑝 𝑟 , 𝒋 (𝑎 ) = 1 

> | D 𝑟 |

Õ𝑑 ∈ D 𝑟 𝑝 𝑟 ,𝑑, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) ∈ [ 0, 1], and averaging these uniformly over roles gives the agent utility 𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) = 1

> | R |

Õ𝑟 ∈ R 𝑝 𝑟 , 𝒋 (𝑎 ) ∈ [ 0, 1].

Data isolation. To prevent memorization and improve generalization, RQGM separates feedback that creates nodes from evidence that selects them. For evaluator-independent roles, each node sees only a subset of the training split, with disjoint validation and test splits held out. For evaluator-dependent roles, the task agent generates fresh artifacts that the epoch-local evaluator scores, with separate artifacts used for training and search. In both cases, the training results of each node and its ancestors are shown to the meta-agent to guide self-modification, but never influence search utility. Node selection is driven solely by evaluations on the validation split, preventing overfitting. Final performance is reported on a held-out test split separate from the validation data used for search. 

3.3 Three-Level Sampling Hierarchy 

Following Wang et al. [3], a scheduler interleaves expansion (adding a new node) with evaluation 

(scoring an existing one) while balancing exploration against exploitation to find a good solution. At each step 𝑡 , given the number of evaluations performed 𝑁 𝑡 ∈ N, an expansion exponent 𝛼 ∈ ( 0, 1),and the archive size |T 𝑡 |, a UCB-Air gate [49] adds a new node if 𝑁 𝛼 𝑡 ≥ |T 𝑡 |, evaluates the existing one otherwise. Thus, the size of the archive is |T 𝑡 | = O( 𝑁 𝛼 𝑡 ).The scheduler first selects a node 𝑎 ★ by Thompson sampling over CMP : an expansion hands 𝑎 ★ to its meta-agent to edit into a new child, while an evaluation descends two levels, role then task. Let 

Relig ⊆ R be the roles eligible at 𝑎 ★, D𝑟 , elig ⊆ D 𝑟 the eligible tasks of a role 𝑟 , and 𝑛 𝑟 (𝑎 ), 𝑛 𝑑 (𝑎 ) ∈ N

the evaluations assigned to role 𝑟 and task 𝑑 at node 𝑎 . A task is eligible unless its dataset is exhausted under sampling; when sampling with replacement every task stays eligible ( D𝑟 , elig = D𝑟 ), and a role is eligible when any task is. At each level the scheduler picks the least-evaluated eligible option: the role 𝑟 ★ = arg min 𝑟 ∈ R elig 𝑛 𝑟 (𝑎 ★) conditioned on 𝑎 ★, then the task 𝑑 ★ = arg min 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑟 ★,elig 𝑛 𝑑 (𝑎 ★)

conditioned on (𝑎 ★, 𝑟 ★). Each evaluation produces a binary outcome accumulated at the node level for Thompson sampling; role- and task-level counters only load balance. Proposition 1 shows that, for a fixed evaluator epoch and node, balanced sampling across roles and tasks gives the pooled Beta accumulator a posterior mean converging to the role–task balanced utility 𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) almost surely. 

3.4 Co-Evolving Evaluation 

We assume learned evaluators are epoch-local stationary (Asm. 2): the evaluator, artifact-generation protocol, and binary scoring rule are frozen throughout an epoch. We define a utility transi-tion (Def. F.2) as a procedure that replaces a slot’s evaluator and performs selective erasure , removing only the utility history attached to the displaced slot while preserving all unrelated information. Se-lective erasure is also order-independent when multiple transitions trigger at once (Rem. 1).   

> Epoch-Local Validity. If evaluator-dependent criteria are fixed within each epoch and records invalidated by a displaced evaluator are erased at transitions, then each epoch induces a fixed binary-outcome search problem (Prop. 3). Therefore, the

RQGM can directly use HGM search within an epoch. 

3.5 Controlled Utility Evolution 

While fixed evaluators give each epoch a stationary utility signal, RQGM improves them over time by replacing them at epoch boundaries under a principled criterion. More broadly, evaluator replacement is one example of a utility transition (Def. F.2). Since our guarantees require only a fixed within-epoch utility criterion and boundary erasure of dependent records, other non-stationary utilities, such as time-varying benchmarks or adversarial objectives, fit the same structure. 

Ground-truth best-belief evaluator replacement. At each epoch boundary, every slot compares its incumbent against challengers on a ground-truth anchor : a fixed, held-out dataset of objective or 

> 2We default to uniform over sample-weighted averaging because some tasks can generate unbounded evaluations.

5human-preference labels for that role. Because this anchor is evaluator-independent, agreement with it gives a replacement criterion consistent across epochs. Candidates are ranked by the same 𝜖 -best-belief score ( 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 ) used for agent selection (Sec. 3.1), and the largest anchor 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 is frozen as the next-epoch evaluator, with ties favoring the incumbent to avoid unnecessary erasures. Proposition 5 establishes the multi-epoch process as a sequence of fixed-criterion searches.       

> Anchor Lower Bound. The promoted evaluator maximizes 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 , a lower bound its anchor utility exceeds with probability 1−𝜖 , so the replacement is likely to outperform the incumbent (Prop. 4 and Rem. 3).

Amortized utility-transition cost. When an evaluator is replaced, records scored by the displaced evaluator are erased and the affected task agents must be re-ranked under the new one. Re-ranking the entire archive immediately would waste budget on nodes the search may never revisit. Instead, the RQGM re-scores old nodes only when later evaluations return to them. The three-level sampling hierarchy (Sec. 3.3) naturally prioritizes under-evaluated nodes, roles, and tasks as search proceeds. Reusing cached agent outputs also lets us re-evaluate nodes without additional task-agent calls. Erasure preserves epoch-local stationarity: keeping stale utilities or re-scaling them onto the new evaluator would mix evidence from different utility functions and violate the condition required by our guarantees. To control the re-evaluation costs we introduce a checkpoint schedule. With expo-nentially spaced checkpoints, the number of records exposed to erasure grows only linearly with the evaluation budget, which also enables later, more accurate evaluators to shape the search for longer.           

> Bounded Recovery. For exponentially spaced checkpoints with ratio 𝜌 > 1, the cumulative number of prior slot-dependent records exposed to erasure or re-evaluation over a budget of 𝐵 evaluations is O( 𝐵 ).This reduces the O( 𝐵 2)cost of allowing a utility transition after every evaluation (Prop. 6 and Rem. 7).
> Summary of Theoretical Guarantees: Propositions 3 and 6 and Rem. 3 together show that

HGM ’s self-improvement guarantees carry over to the co-evolutionary setting on a per-epoch basis via controlled utility evolution . This rests on the three results below: the first secures guarantees within each epoch, the second carries improvement across epochs, and the third bounds the cost of doing so. 1. Epoch-Local Validity. Each epoch is itself a fixed-criterion search problem (Prop. 3), so HGM ’s per-epoch convergence guarantees apply directly within every epoch. 2. Anchor-Guided Improvement. Evaluators are only promoted when they raise the 𝜖 -best-belief score on a fixed ground-truth anchor (Rem. 3), so evaluators improve across epochs, not just within them. 3. Amortized Transitions. The bookkeeping cost of evaluator replacement is linear in the search bud-get (Prop. 6), so co-evolution does not impose asymptotic overhead beyond standard archive search. Informally, convergence guarantees hold epoch-by-epoch for the RQGM due to epoch-local stationarity, while controlled utility evolution encourages improvement across epoch boundaries. 

## 4 Experimental Design 

Our experimental design answers the following research questions about RQGM :

RQ1 Can RQGM bring benefits for domains where ground-truth verification exists but is expensive? 

RQ2 Can learned evaluation improve agents in domains with no objective evaluation? 

RQ3 Do evaluator replacements guide the search toward better task agents over time? 

RQ4 Can co-evolution improve the evaluators themselves? 

Domains and ground-truth anchors. Each domain pairs a generator role with a learned evalua-tor role and a ground-truth anchor (Fig. 7). Paper writing is paired with paper review, anchored to 

APReS accept/reject decisions [15]; we construct a matching writer dataset of APReS titles and abstracts to align train, validation, and test distributions across roles. Proof writing is paired with proof grading, anchored to IMO-GradingBench human grades [7], where a proof is accepted only when the epoch’s frozen grader awards full credit ( 7 of 7). Coding uses two anchors: the coding agent is anchored to executable Polyglot tests [13], while a co-evolved code reviewer is anchored to CRAVE [50], a dataset of accepted/rejected pull requests, and scores each Polyglot patch at generation time. Across domains, every role agent is initialized from a minimal template (App. C.5). The long runtime of SWE-bench [51] precluded its inclusion in this version of our work. 6Specialists and generalists. Unlike prior methods, RQGM optimizes agents against multiple utility functions simultaneously. This raises the question of which utilities to consider when selecting a best-belief agent. We define a specialist as the agent with the highest best-belief on one target utility, and a generalist as the agent with the highest average best-belief across active utilities. Reporting both shows whether target-task performance comes from task-specific or joint optimization. 

Baselines. Every domain uses a learned baseline, HGM-H , which replaces the DGM search algo-rithm of HyperAgents [4] with the more sample-efficient HGM , while keeping evaluators frozen. In each domain, HGM-H uses a fixed external evaluator from prior work. We use the Sakana prompt reviewer [14] for paper writing, ProofAutoGrader [7] for proof grading, and the IMO25 

prover [52]. We additionally evaluate the best published HyperAgents (DGM-H ) patches from Zhang et al. [4] for paper reviewing and grading as a proxy for DGM -level performance, though trained on different foundation models. Zhang et al. [4] did not publish the best Polyglot agent. 

Principled search interventions. The co-evolutionary framework permits principled modifications of the search objective at epoch boundaries while maintaining epoch-local convergence guarantees. In the paper domain, we exploit this to correct for LLM self-preference bias (Sec. 2): after the first replacement, papers accepted by the displaced reviewer form an adversarial pool, and the subsequent epoch additionally rewards rejecting these writer-generated papers while maintaining accuracy on the human APReS data. Evaluator replacement itself stays anchored to APReS (App. C). Additional ablations that isolate each part of RQGM are reported in App. D.2. We selected GPT-5.5 (low) for the main text experiments, as it provides a desirable cost-intelligence trade-off (App. C). 

Costs and reporting. We call the agent with the highest 𝜖 -best-belief score reached during search the best-belief agent . This score is comparable across epochs only when it rests on a fixed ground-truth anchor, so a global best-belief winner exists only for anchored roles: the learned evaluators and the verifiable coding agent. The paper writer and proof prover have no anchor and admit only epoch-local winners, each the best agent under its epoch’s frozen evaluator; we select these per epoch and score them post-hoc against fixed external judges (Tabs. 1 and 2). Search budgets are matched across runs, so cost differences reflect search dynamics rather than unequal allocation , and we compare runs along three axes: best agent at matched compute, cost to matched quality, and best overall. Because equal evaluation budgets can hide large compute differences when evaluation costs vary, we report blended tokens : input plus output, with output weighted at 5× input cost [53, 54], counting both generation and evaluation calls. Following Wang et al. [3], a best-belief agent’s cost is the budget consumed when it first attains its highest 𝜖 -best-belief score, not when the epoch or run finishes .Uncertainty is reported with 95% central Beta (Jeffreys) intervals; further details are in App. C. 

4.1 Visualization Guide 

All result figures (Figs. 1, 5 and 6) share one scheme, comparing several arms : search configurations, such as the RQGM generalist, specialist, and HGM-H baseline. Each figure pairs a ground-truth panel ,which scores arms against the fixed anchor and so permits direct comparison, with a search-trajectory panel tracking best-belief utility as search consumes tokens. A circle marks a task agent (writer, prover, or coder) and a down-triangle a learned evaluator (reviewer or grader), color identifying the arm. The crowned heart marks the single global best-belief winner shown in the ground-truth panel. The search-trajectory panel instead plots each task agent’s best-belief utility against its own evalua-tor, so heights are not comparable across arms; the cross-arm winner is read from the ground-truth panel and tables. Markers along a trajectory are that arm’s epoch-local best-belief picks, later scored on held-out test data or fixed evaluators. A crown on a dashed rule marks an evaluator replacement, and alternating shaded bands the epochs. At each replacement the best-belief may drop, as selective erasure discards records that depended on the displaced evaluator, then re-climbs under the new, typ-ically stricter criterion. A best-belief of 0 marks the start of an epoch, before any record survives the new evaluator, or an agent that fails a task outright, such as code that does not compile. A trajectory ends where its best-belief agent stops changing, not because search halts (total budget is matched) but because no later agent overtakes it; a faint dotted line shows the continued trajectory. Each panel carries two legends: a main one inside for the searched agents, and a strip above for baselines and paired-role arms. Arrows mark each metric’s direction, ↑ higher-is-better and ↓ lower-is-better; cali-bration axes with no preferred direction, such as acceptance rate and rank correlations, carry none. 75 Results 

We evaluate RQGM , validating that (i) co-evolved learned evaluation improves search even on verifi-able coding tasks where ground truth exists, exceeding the HGM-H held-out pass rate at lower search cost (Sec. 5.1), and (ii) co-evolution improves generators in domains where no benchmark can score the artifact, yielding stronger paper writers and Olympiad provers (Sec. 5.2). Section 5.3 then ex-amines how utility transitions shape the search. Finally, we validate that (iii) co-evolution improves the evaluators themselves, strengthening the grader and correcting the paper reviewer’s over-leniency toward AI -generated text (Sec. 5.4). Further details and ablations are in Apps. C and D. 

5.1 Learned evaluation helps even where ground truth exists (RQ1) 

We now show RQGM improves search even in domains where objective ground-truth evaluation ex-ists. In the Polyglot coding domain, we co-evolve a code reviewer alongside the coder. Because 

Polyglot is built around multi-turn agent editing, this agent-as-a-judge provides a much cheaper and complementary surrogate objective. The meta-agent learns not just whether a patch passes tests, but also whether it is of high quality. The RQGM exceeds the HGM-H held-out pass rate for both the specialist and generalist at 1.35 ×–1.72 × lower token cost (Fig. 1). Examining where the meta-agent edits the codebase shows why co-evolving the two roles pays off: in the Polyglot run, 90% of accepted patches modify shared task-agent functionality or infrastructure used by both the coder and the reviewer, rather than role-specific code (Fig. 9). A single such edit therefore improves both roles, suggesting co-evolution enriches the search rather than splitting effort across competing objectives.  

> RQ1:

RQGM is a general framework for enriching the utility signals available to a search: even where ground truth exists, co-evolving a learned evaluator supplies a complementary objective that improves search efficiency, with promise for domains where evaluation is even slower. 

5.2 Learned evaluation improves agents on domains without objective evaluation (RQ2) 

We now turn to domains with no objective benchmark, where only evaluator-dependent task agents exist. We score the artifacts produced by our paper writer and prover against a broad panel of review-ers and graders from both our work and prior baselines. The task agents and their evaluators interact throughout the search, but in this section we evaluate only the task agents, deferring evaluators to Sec. 5.4, where objective anchor data permits further analysis. 

Paper writing. Paper quality cannot be evaluated objectively, so we score writer artifacts against a fixed panel of four reviewers from our work and prior baselines (Tab. 1); the joint search of the writer and its co-evolving reviewer is shown on the right in Fig. 6. Our results show that co-evolving the writer with a learned reviewer improves it. At the matched-compute point where HGM-H commits to its writer, our writer already achieves a 1.78 × higher reviewer-panel acceptance rate on average, and across the full run it beats HGM-H as evaluated by every reviewer, with a 1.86 × higher acceptance rate. This is enabled by a co-evolving reviewer whose objective is regularized to favor reviewers harsher on AI -generated text (Sec. 5.4), giving the writer a stricter signal resilient to reward hacking. Table 1: Co-evolved writers achieve 1.78 × higher mean acceptance than HGM-H at matched search cost, and 1.86 × for the best-found specialist. Rows are writer agents; the four Reviewers 

columns form a fixed panel from our work and prior baselines, each cell giving the percentage of writer-generated papers that reviewer accepts (mean ± 95% Jeffreys interval). Mean averages across the panel, with each RQGM writer’s gain over HGM-H in parentheses. RQGM adversarial is the RQGM 

reviewer regularized to be harsher on AI -written text (Sec. 5.4). Best per column in bold .   

> Reviewer Acceptance Rate (%, ↑)Writer Search Tokens
> Sakana
> [14]
> DGM-H
> [4]
> HGM-H
> [3, 4]
> RQGM
> adversarial Mean (%, ↑)

HGM-H writer 42.5M 1.0 ±2.2 12 .0 ±6.3 64 .0 ±9.3 10 .0 ±5.9 21 .8 ±4.0

RQGM writer (generalist) 44.6M 2.0 ±2.9 43.0 ±9.6 81 .0 ±7.6 29 .0 ±8.8 38 .8 ±4.8 (1.78 ×)

RQGM writer (specialist) 221.8M 5.0 ±4.3 40 .0 ±9.5 86.0 ±6.8 31.0 ±9.0 40.5 ±4.8 (1.86 ×)

8Proof writing. The proof domain is substantially harder than paper writing, with improvements emerging only at longer training horizons. As shown in Tab. 2, the RQGM generalist performs simi-larly to HGM-H at matched compute. The divergence appears at longer horizons: HGM-H stagnates, which we posit is because a frozen evaluator eventually ceases to provide an informative signal. The specialist prover that RQGM discovers has the best panel-mean score and Pass@6 score. As we show in Sec. 5.4, this is enabled by a co-evolved grader that exceeds ProofAutoGrader and 

HGM-H , providing evaluations that guide the search toward better solutions than HGM-H can. A more nuanced comparison is the IMO25 baseline of Huang and Yang [52], a human-engineered verification-and-refinement pipeline that achieved gold-medal performance at IMO 2025. The RQGM 

specialist attains a higher panel-mean score and Pass@6 rate, but earns them by finding more near-complete proofs ( 6 of 7), conceding ground on the stricter Pass@7 metric. It still exceeds the best 

HGM-H prover on Pass@7 , and already beats the mean score of the IMO25 baseline despite using no hand-engineered Olympiad-specific scaffold. Thus, we posit that closing the remaining Pass@7 

gap depends on increasing the search budget. Details in App. D. Table 2: The co-evolved RQGM specialist prover attains the best mean score, while the HGM-H 

prover and the RQGM generalist fall below the baseline. Rows are prover agents. A fixed panel of three graders from our work and prior baselines scores every prover’s proofs, mirroring the reviewer panel of Tab. 1. Because graders report several metrics, we pool each metric across graders, with per-grader results in Tab. 6. Score is the mean grade ( 0–7), Pass@6 the fraction scoring at least 6

of 7, and Pass@7 the fraction earning full credit; all report ± s.e.m. Best per column in bold .

Prover Search Tokens Score ( ↑) Pass@6 (↑) Pass@7 (↑)

Static IMO25 prover N/A 4.07 ±0.42 55 .0% ±6.4 55.0% ±6.4

HGM-H prover 21.5M 3.73 ±0.43 51 .7% ±6.5 45 .0% ±6.4

RQGM prover (generalist) 37.9M 3.73 ±0.43 51 .7% ±6.5 45 .0% ±6.4

RQGM prover (specialist) 88.0M 4.33 ±0.41 61.7% ±6.3 48 .3% ±6.5

RQ2: Where no objective benchmark exists, co-evolving agents with learned evaluators outperform fixed-evaluator baselines: writers reach markedly higher reviewer-panel acceptance, while provers improve over longer horizons as the co-evolved grader becomes more accurate and the frozen baseline stagnates. 

5.3 Evaluator replacements act as a curriculum on the search (RQ3) 0 100 1,000       

> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> 1.0
> Spearman  ρ vs. pre-replacement ranking
> code review
> Replacement at 258 evals
> Replacement at 512 evals
> Replacement at 2,050 evals
> 0100 1,000
> Paper review
> Replacement at 8,192 evals
> 0100 1,000
> Proof grading
> Replacement at 1,024 evals
> Replacement at 2,048 evals
> 0100 1,000
> No-erasure control
> Task evaluations since replacement

Figure 3: Evaluator replacements permanently re-rank the archive. Each curve tracks one re-placement, plotting the Spearman 𝜌 between post- and pre-replacement rankings as evaluations ac-cumulate: 𝜌 = 1 (dotted) is the unchanged order, 𝜌 = 0 an uncorrelated reordering. Across all three tasks 𝜌 settles well below 1 and never recovers, so the new ordering holds. The no-erasure control (rightmost) stays high ( 𝜌 ≥ 0.90 ), showing erasure is necessary for utility transitions to guide search. A potential mechanism by which the RQGM can improve task agents is that a progressively stronger evaluator hardens the population over time, imposing a curriculum-like effect on the task agents. For this to hold, each transition must achieve two outcomes at once: re-rank the search under the new, stricter criterion rather than leave the old ordering in place, while still letting a strong lineage carry forward so the population advances over time rather than restarting on every transition. 90.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

> Best-belief utility
> Best-belief winner
> Winning lineage
> Promoted into the top-8
> Churned out of the top-8

Figure 4: Evaluator replacement preserves the best lineage while re-ranking the remainder. The paper-run archive after an evaluator replacement (radial layout; node color is best-belief utility, size tracks evidence count). The crimson winning lineage survives intact, ending in the crowned-heart winner. Among the top-8 nodes, every prior member is re-ranked (rings mark promotions and churn). 

Macro view: each replacement re-ranks the archive. If replacements merely sharpened pass-rate estimates without changing which agents the search favors, no curriculum could arise. Figure 3 sug-gests otherwise. Some ranking structure persists across a transition, reflecting evaluator-independent evidence carried through the change, but the re-ordering is substantial and permanent, plateauing near its post-erasure level rather than recovering toward the old order. Each later evaluator thus appears to enforce a stricter criterion. Selective erasure makes this possible: the no-erasure control, which keeps stale scores, stays pinned to the displaced order and never lets the new criterion re-rank agents. 

Micro view: the curriculum advances a backbone lineage. Figure 4 takes a finer view, with the archive concentrating evidence on a few backbone lineages. Each transition pulls lineages the dis-placed criterion ranked low into contention, so the new bar is met by different candidates rather than the same set re-scored. However, the best lineage stays resilient across the enlarged set, suggesting the curriculum raises the population around a stable backbone rather than scattering it.  

> RQ3: Evaluator replacements drive a curriculum-like search: erasure lets each stricter criterion re-rank the archive toward new candidates, while a resilient backbone keeps the population progressing.

5.4 Co-evolution improves the evaluators themselves (RQ4) 

While the RQGM is not designed to improve evaluators directly, we posit that the same dynamics improving a generator can also benefit its evaluator since a better grasp of how to generate solutions may help the meta-agent discriminate them. Complementary utility signals may likewise prevent stagnation when one role plateaus. Our two learned evaluators, the proof grader and paper reviewer, differ in one crucial respect: their susceptibility to self-preference bias, an LLM judge’s tendency to favor AI -generated text [16]. The grader is largely insulated and improves through co-evolution alone; the reviewer is not, needing the adversarial correction that controlled utility evolution makes possible to inform the paper writer search (Sec. 4 and Tab. 1). 

Proof grading. Grading is the more constrained task: the grader is conditioned on a reference solu-tion and its steps, so it judges a proof against a fixed target rather than on surface plausibility. Com-bined with the mathematical understanding and instruction-following of foundation models [55–57], this leaves little room for self-preference bias, making adversarial objectives unnecessary. As shown in Fig. 5, the co-evolved grader is the strongest judge, outperforming the static baselines and the best HGM-H grader, and it does so at lower search cost. Unlike our other experiments, the specialist and generalist coincide in a single node, which reaches specialist selection before generalist selection. At the specialist point it is 3× more token-efficient than HGM-H ; even at the later generalist point, where it costs 1.35 × more, it still beats the best grader HGM-H ever finds, as HGM-H never 10 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10           

> Normalized grading MAE ↓
> 64%
> 66%
> 68%
> 70%
> 72%
> 74%
> 76%
> - accuracy (%)  ↑
> -(published)
> RQGM grader (specialist & generalist) 9.3/37.9M
> HGM-H grader 28.0M
> 020 40 60 80
> Search tokens (millions, blended) ↓
> 20%
> 40%
> 60%
> Best-belief utility ( ε = 0.05 ) ↑
> prover (specialist) prover (generalist) -prover
> RQGM grader (specialist)
> RQGM grader (generalist)
> HGM-H grader
> evaluator replacement

Figure 5: The co-evolved RQGM grader reaches the best IMO-GradingBench accuracy at 3×

lower search cost than HGM-H . A ground-truth-anchored slot has one global best-belief winner (the crowned heart), while an evaluator-dependent slot admits only epoch-local winners, scored post-hoc in the tables. Left: IMO-GradingBench accuracy of selected graders against grading mean absolute error (MAE); the RQGM grader’s global winner (heart) is the highest-accuracy point, with specialist and generalist coinciding. Right: the search trajectory over tokens, showing best-belief utility for the grader (top) and prover (bottom); the grader is scored on its ground-truth anchor, so its heights are comparable and carry the global winner, whereas each prover marker is only that epoch’s best-belief winner under its own evaluator. Utility drops at each evaluator replacement (crown; shaded epochs) as erasure discards the displaced records, then re-climbs, and a line ends where its best-belief agent stops improving, not where search halts. For further details see Sec. 4 and Sec. 4.1. matches it within an equal search budget. Co-evolution thus yields a better grader at lower cost, and lets the grader drive the prover improvements of Tab. 2 without adversarial objectives. 

Paper review. Paper reviewing is the opposite case. There is no reference answer, so a reviewer judges each paper on its own terms, exposing a known weakness of LLM judges, self-preference bias :the tendency to accept AI -generated text more readily than human-written text [16, 58]. The APReS 

benchmark compounds this, as its accept/reject balance rewards lenient reviewers, so a reviewer’s bias toward AI -generated text and its raw APReS accuracy pull in the same direction: the HGM-H 

reviewer scoring writers in Tab. 1 accepts AI -generated papers at 1.42 ×–1.91 × the rate of human ones. The Sakana baseline shows the converse failure: even a real NeurIPS form, held fixed, is too harsh, giving the HGM-H writer it guides a weak signal. We want not an accurate reviewer for its own sake, but one giving the open-ended writer it co-evolves with a strong, hard-to-hack signal that grows harsher over time. This justifies modifying the objective away from raw APReS accuracy. The RQGM allows us to correct for LLM self-preference bias by exploiting an epoch boundary. After each replacement, the AI -generated papers the displaced reviewer had accepted form an adversarial pool, and the next epoch additionally rewards evolved reviewers for rejecting them. The search then selects a reviewer that is harsh specifically on AI -generated text, which costs raw accuracy by con-struction and leaves our best-found reviewer below the lenient HGM-H . What it gains is calibration: the reviewer accepts AI -generated and real papers at similar rates while retaining 80% ground-truth accuracy. Had evaluators and generators evolved independently, the writer could have reward-hacked it, so co-evolution yields a meaningful decision boundary between human- and AI -generated text. 

RQ4: The same search dynamics that improve generators also improve evaluators: co-evolution finds a stronger grader at lower cost than fixed-evaluator baselines, and, by introducing an adversarial objective at an epoch boundary, corrects a reviewer’s self-preference bias to give the writer a harder-to-hack signal. 

11 20% 30% 40% 50%          

> Reviewer acceptance rate (%)
> 60%
> 65%
> 70%
> 75%
> 80%
> 85%
> 90%
> reviewer accuracy (%)  ↑
> dataset
> balanced rate
> -(published)
> RQGM reviewer (adversarial) 80.7M
> RQGM reviewer (specialist) 24.4M
> RQGM reviewer (generalist) 46.6M
> HGM-H reviewer 77.6M
> 050 100 150 200
> Search tokens (millions, blended) ↓
> 0%
> 20%
> 40%
> 60%
> 80%
> Best-belief utility ( ε = 0.05 ) ↑
> writer (specialist) writer (generalist) -writer
> RQGM reviewer (adversarial)
> RQGM reviewer (specialist)
> RQGM reviewer (generalist)
> HGM-H reviewer
> evaluator replacement

Figure 6: The adversarial RQGM reviewer accepts AI and human papers at similar rates, a cali-brated accept/reject boundary that drives the strongest writer (Tab. 1); HGM-H reaches higher raw APReS accuracy only by over-accepting AI -generated papers, which leaves its writer weak. 

Left: APReS accuracy of selected reviewers against acceptance rate; the dashed line marks the dataset’s true accept rate. The RQGM reviewer keeps high accuracy at a low acceptance rate, between the lenient HGM-H and the over-harsh Sakana . Right: the same run over tokens, writers (top) and reviewers (bottom); at the adversarial-pool replacement the generalist’s average best-belief drops as erasure re-ranks the affected utilities, then re-climbs under the harsher criterion. 

## 6 Conclusion 

We introduced the Red Queen Gödel Machine ( RQGM ), a framework in which evaluators co-evolve with the agents they score. Our results suggest two broad principles. First, co-evolving the evaluator alongside the generator enables improvement on hard-to-verify tasks such as paper writing and proof writing, where a fixed benchmark cannot score the artifact directly, mirroring co-evolutionary dynam-ics observed in nature [1]. Second, co-evolved systems match or exceed fixed-evaluator baselines while often being more token-efficient, which we posit is due to shared expansion costs, more hetero-geneous utility signals, and a curriculum-like effect in which a progressively stricter evaluator hard-ens the population over time. Underlying both is the framework’s accommodation of non-stationary utilities: because controlled utility evolution lets the search objective change at epoch boundaries while keeping per-epoch guarantees intact, interventions a fixed objective cannot express, such as the adversarial term that corrects the reviewer’s self-preference bias, become available mid-search. 

6.1 Future Research Directions 

Our investigation is preliminary, drawn from short search horizons we intend to extend. The frame-work’s premise is that longer co-evolution compounds these effects, extending the curriculum so that each generation of agents faces a stricter and more discerning judge. The limit of this improvement is governed by the anchor. Anchoring every replacement to fixed ground truth keeps evaluators accurate but confines them to the anchor’s own decision boundary. Improvement far beyond the benchmark must therefore come from the objectives layered on top of the ground-truth signal, with the anchor serving as a guardrail against drift. The adversarial reviewer is the first such instance: it roughly main-tains accuracy on the ground truth while the adversarial term discovers a human–machine decision boundary the benchmark never specified. Richer objectives of this kind are, we believe, the path to-ward systems that bootstrap their own evaluation beyond the reach of static benchmarks. We identify two limitations with the current framework. First, evaluator quality is only as good as its anchor: a weak or biased anchor could yield uninformative evaluators. Second, our theoretical guarantees are epoch-local, covering improvement only within an epoch. We discuss the limitations of the RQGM in full in App. G, and will update this work as we explore these future research directions. 12 Acknowledgments 

This research was supported by the following entities: NVIDIA, The Royal Academy of Engineering via DANTE (a RAEng Chair); the European Research Council, specifically the REDIAL project; SPRIND under the composite learning challenge; Foresight Institute via the AI Safety Grant; Google through a Google Academic Research Award. 

## References 

[1] Leigh Van Valen. A new evolutionary law. Evolutionary Theory , 1:1–30, 1973. [2] Jenny Zhang, Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, Robert Tjarko Lange, and Jeff Clune. Darwin Gödel Machine: Open-ended evolution of self-improving agents. In ICLR , 2026. URL https:// openreview.net/forum?id=pUpzQZTvGY .[3] Wenyi Wang, Piotr Piękos, Li Nanbo, Firas Laakom, Yimeng Chen, Mateusz Ostaszewski, Mingchen Zhuge, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Huxley-Gödel Machine: Human-Level Coding Agent Development by an Approximation of the Optimal Self-Improving Machine. In ICLR ,2026. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=T0EiEuhOOL .[4] Jenny Zhang, Bingchen Zhao, Wannan Yang, Jakob N. Foerster, Jeff Clune, Minqi Jiang, Sam Devlin, and Tatiana Shavrina. HyperAgents. CoRR , abs/2603.19461, 2026. [5] Chris Lu, Cong Lu, Robert Tjarko Lange, Jakob N. Foerster, Jeff Clune, and David Ha. The AI scientist: Towards fully automated open-ended scientific discovery. CoRR , abs/2408.06292, 2024. [6] Yutaro Yamada, Robert Tjarko Lange, Cong Lu, Shengran Hu, Chris Lu, Jakob N. Foerster, Jeff Clune, and David Ha. The AI scientist-v2: Workshop-level automated scientific discovery via agentic tree search. CoRR , abs/2504.08066, 2025. [7] Thang Luong, Dawsen Hwang, Hoang H. Nguyen, Golnaz Ghiasi, Yuri Chervonyi, Insuk Seo, Junsu Kim, Garrett Bingham, Jonathan Lee, Swaroop Mishra, Alex Zhai, Clara Huiyi Hu, Hen-ryk Michalewski, Jimin Kim, Jeonghyun Ahn, Junhwi Bae, Xingyou Song, Trieu H. Trinh, Quoc V. Le, and Junehyuk Jung. Towards robust mathematical reasoning. In EMNLP , pages 35418–35442. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2025. [8] Sergey Levine, Peter Pastor, Alex Krizhevsky, Julian Ibarz, and Deirdre Quillen. Learning hand-eye coordination for robotic grasping with deep learning and large-scale data collection. Int. J. Robotics Res. , 37(4-5):421–436, 2018. [9] Benjamin Burger, Phillip M. Maffettone, Vladimir V. Gusev, Catherine M. Aitchison, Yang Bai, Xiaoyan Wang, Xiaobo Li, Ben M. Alston, Buyi Li, Rob Clowes, Nicola Rankin, Brandon Harris, Reiner Sebastian Sprick, and Andrew I. Cooper. A mobile robotic chemist. Nature , 583 (7815):237–241, 2020. doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-2442-2. [10] Marcin Andrychowicz, Filip Wolski, Alex Ray, Jonas Schneider, Rachel Fong, Peter Welin-der, Bob McGrew, Josh Tobin, OpenAI Pieter Abbeel, and Wojciech Zaremba. Hind-sight experience replay. In I. Guyon, U. Von Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fer-gus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Garnett, editors, NeurIPS , volume 30. Curran Associates, Inc., 2017. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/ 2017/file/453fadbd8a1a3af50a9df4df899537b5-Paper.pdf .[11] Haoyan Yang, Mario Xerri, Solha Park, Huajian Zhang, Yiyang Feng, Sai Akhil Kogilathota, and Jiawei Zhou. Self-improvement of large language models: A technical overview and future outlook. CoRR , abs/2603.25681, 2026. [12] Adriano Barbosa-Silva, Simon Ott, Kathrin Blagec, Jan Brauner, and Matthias Samwald. Map-ping global dynamics of benchmark creation and saturation in artificial intelligence. CoRR ,abs/2203.04592, 2022. [13] Paul Gauthier. o1 tops aider’s new polyglot leaderboard. https://aider.chat/2024/ 12/21/polyglot.html , December 2024. Accessed: 2026-01-28. 13 [14] Chris Lu, Cong Lu, Robert Tjarko Lange, Yutaro Yamada, Shengran Hu, Jakob Foerster, David Ha, and Jeff Clune. Towards end-to-end automation of AI research. Nature , 651(8107):914– 919, 2026. [15] Bingchen Zhao, Jenny Zhang, Chenxi Whitehouse, Minqi Jiang, Michael Shvartsman, Ab-hishek Charnalia, Despoina Magka, Tatiana Shavrina, Derek Dunfield, Oisin Mac Aodha, and Yoram Bachrach. APReS: an agentic paper revision and evaluation system. CoRR ,abs/2603.03142, 2026. [16] Arjun Panickssery, Samuel R. Bowman, and Shi Feng. LLM evaluators recognize and favor their own generations. In NeurIPS , 2024. [17] Irving John Good. Speculations concerning the first ultraintelligent machine. Adv. Comput. , 6: 31–88, 1965. [18] Jürgen Schmidhuber. Gödel machines: Self-referential universal problem solvers making prov-ably optimal self-improvements. CoRR , cs.LO/0309048, 2003. [19] Louis Kirsch and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Eliminating meta optimization through self-referential meta learning. CoRR , abs/2212.14392, 2022. [20] Chris Lu, Sebastian Towers, and Jakob N. Foerster. Arbitrary order meta-learning with simple population-based evolution. CoRR , abs/2303.09478, 2023. [21] Chunqiu Steven Xia, Zhe Wang, Yan Yang, Yuxiang Wei, and Lingming Zhang. Live-SWE-agent: Can software engineering agents self-evolve on the fly? CoRR , abs/2511.13646, 2025. [22] Eric Zelikman, Eliana Lorch, Lester Mackey, and Adam Tauman Kalai. Self-taught optimizer (STOP): recursively self-improving code generation. CoRR , abs/2310.02304, 2023. [23] Xunjian Yin, Xinyi Wang, Liangming Pan, Li Lin, Xiaojun Wan, and William Yang Wang. Gödel agent: A self-referential agent framework for recursively self-improvement. In ACL (1) ,pages 27890–27913. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2025. [24] Chrisantha Fernando, Dylan Banarse, Henryk Michalewski, Simon Osindero, and Tim Rock-täschel. Promptbreeder: Self-referential self-improvement via prompt evolution. In ICML , vol-ume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pages 13481–13544. PMLR / Open-Review.net, 2024. [25] Eric Zelikman, Yuhuai Wu, Jesse Mu, and Noah D. Goodman. Star: Bootstrapping reasoning with reasoning. In NeurIPS , 2022. [26] William F. Shen, Alex Iacob, Zichen Zhang, Daoheng Wang, Wenyi Wang, Rui Liang, Yulong Zhang, Xinchi Qiu, and Nicholas D. Lane. Star analyst: Self-tuning alpha research. SSRN preprint, 2026. Available at SSRN: https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.6823940 .[27] Maxime Robeyns, Martin Szummer, and Laurence Aitchison. A self-improving coding agent. 

CoRR , abs/2504.15228, 2025. [28] Joar Skalse, Nikolaus H. R. Howe, Dmitrii Krasheninnikov, and David Krueger. Defining and characterizing reward gaming. In NeurIPS , 2022. [29] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric P. Xing, Hao Zhang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. Judging LLM-as-a-judge with MT-bench and chatbot arena. In NeurIPS , 2023. [30] Yann Dubois, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. Length-controlled AlpacaEval: A simple debiasing of automatic evaluators. In First Conference on Language Modeling , 2024. URL 

https://openreview.net/forum?id=CybBmzWBX0 .[31] Mingchen Zhuge, Changsheng Zhao, Dylan R. Ashley, Wenyi Wang, Dmitrii Khizbullin, Yunyang Xiong, Zechun Liu, Ernie Chang, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Yuandong Tian, Yangyang Shi, Vikas Chandra, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Agent-as-a-judge: Evaluate agents with agents. In ICML , volume 267 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research . PMLR / OpenReview.net, 2025. 14 [32] Juraj Gottweis, Wei-Hung Weng, Alexander Daryin, Tao Tu, Petar Sirkovic, Artiom Myaskovsky, Grzegorz Glowaty, Felix Weissenberger, Alessio Orlandi, Dan Popovici, et al. Accelerating scientific discovery with Co-Scientist. Nature , pages 1–3, 2026. [33] Ali Essam Ghareeb, Benjamin Chang, Ludovico Mitchener, Angela Yiu, Caralyn JSzostkiewicz, Dmytro Shved, Gavin J Gyimesi, Jon M Laurent, Samantha M Wright, Muhammed T Razzak, et al. A multi-agent system for automating scientific discovery. Na-ture , pages 1–3, 2026. [34] Alexander Novikov, Ngân Vu, Marvin Eisenberger, Emilien Dupont, Po-Sen Huang, Adam Zsolt Wagner, Sergey Shirobokov, Borislav Kozlovskii, Francisco J. R. Ruiz, Abbas Mehrabian, M. Pawan Kumar, Abigail See, Swarat Chaudhuri, George Holland, Alex Davies, Sebastian Nowozin, Pushmeet Kohli, and Matej Balog. AlphaEvolve: A coding agent for sci-entific and algorithmic discovery. CoRR , abs/2506.13131, 2025. [35] Bernardino Romera-Paredes, Mohammadamin Barekatain, Alexander Novikov, Matej Balog, M. Pawan Kumar, Emilien Dupont, Francisco J. R. Ruiz, Jordan S. Ellenberg, Pengming Wang, Omar Fawzi, Pushmeet Kohli, and Alhussein Fawzi. Mathematical discoveries from program search with large language models. Nature , 625(7995):468–475, 2024. [36] Christopher D. Rosin and Richard K. Belew. New methods for competitive coevolution. Evol. Comput. , 5(1):1–29, 1997. [37] Jürgen Schmidhuber and Jieyu Zhao. Multi-agent learning with the success-story algorithm. In 

ECAI Workshop LDAIS / ICMAS Workshop LIOME , volume 1221 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 82–93. Springer, 1996. [38] David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J Maddison, Arthur Guez, Laurent Sifre, George Van Den Driessche, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Veda Panneershelvam, Marc Lanctot, et al. Mastering the game of Go with deep neural networks and tree search. Nature , 529(7587): 484–489, 2016. [39] David Silver, Thomas Hubert, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Matthew Lai, Arthur Guez, Marc Lanctot, Laurent Sifre, Dharshan Kumaran, Thore Graepel, Timothy Lillicrap, Karen Simonyan, and Demis Hassabis. A general reinforcement learning algorithm that masters chess, shogi, and Go through self-play. Science , 362(6419):1140–1144, 2018. doi: 10.1126/science.aar6404. [40] Yixing Chen, Yiding Wang, Siqi Zhu, Haofei Yu, Tao Feng, Muhan Zhang, Mostofa Pat-wary, and Jiaxuan You. Multi-agent evolve: LLM self-improve through co-evolution. CoRR ,abs/2510.23595, 2025. [41] Zhaotian Weng, Antonis Antoniades, Deepak Nathani, Zhen Zhang, Xiao Pu, and Xin Eric Wang. Group-evolving agents: Open-ended self-improvement via experience sharing. CoRR ,abs/2602.04837, 2026. [42] Jason Weston and Jakob N. Foerster. AI & human co-improvement for safer co-superintelligence. CoRR , abs/2512.05356, 2025. [43] Kenneth O. Stanley, Joel Lehman, and Lisa Soros. Open-endedness: The last grand challenge you’ve never heard of. O’Reilly Radar (online arti-cle), December 2017. URL https://www.oreilly.com/radar/ open-endedness-the-last-grand-challenge-youve-never-heard-of/ .Accessed 2026-06-16. [44] Edward Hughes, Michael D. Dennis, Jack Parker-Holder, Feryal M. P. Behbahani, Aditi Mavalankar, Yuge Shi, Tom Schaul, and Tim Rocktäschel. Position: Open-endedness is es-sential for artificial superhuman intelligence. In ICML , volume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pages 20597–20616. PMLR / OpenReview.net, 2024. [45] Jean-Baptiste Mouret and Jeff Clune. Illuminating search spaces by mapping elites. CoRR ,abs/1504.04909, 2015. 15 [46] Adrien Ecoffet, Joost Huizinga, Joel Lehman, Kenneth O. Stanley, and Jeff Clune. Go-explore: a new approach for hard-exploration problems. CoRR , abs/1901.10995, 2019. [47] Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, and Jeff Clune. Automated design of agentic systems. In ICLR . Open-Review.net, 2025. [48] Jeff Clune. Ai-gas: Ai-generating algorithms, an alternate paradigm for producing general arti-ficial intelligence. CoRR , abs/1905.10985, 2019. [49] Yizao Wang, Jean-yves Audibert, and Rémi Munos. Algorithms for infinitely many-armed bandits. In D. Koller, D. Schuurmans, Y. Bengio, and L. Bottou, editors, NeurIPS , volume 21, pages 1729–1736. Curran Associates, Inc., 2008. [50] Li Zhang. CRAVE: Code Review Agent Verdict Evaluation. Hugging Face dataset, 2025. URL https://huggingface.co/datasets/TuringEnterprises/ CRAVE . Code review classification dataset from curated human code reviews. [51] Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R. Narasimhan. SWE-bench: Can language models resolve real-world GitHub issues? In ICLR . OpenReview.net, 2024. [52] Yichen Huang and Lin F. Yang. Gemini 2.5 pro capable of winning gold at IMO 2025. CoRR ,abs/2507.15855, 2025. [53] OpenAI. Api pricing. https://openai.com/api/pricing/ , 2026. [54] Anthropic. Pricing. https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/ about-claude/pricing , 2026. [55] OpenAI. Our First Proof Submissions. https://openai.com/index/ first-proof-submissions/ , 2025. Gold-medal-level performance at the In-ternational Mathematical Olympiad 2025. [56] Sébastien Bubeck, Christian Coester, Ronen Eldan, Timothy Gowers, Yin Tat Lee, Alexandru Lupsasca, Mehtaab Sawhney, Robert Scherrer, Mark Sellke, Brian K. Spears, Derya Unutmaz, Kevin Weil, Steven Yin, and Nikita Zhivotovskiy. Early science acceleration experiments with GPT-5. CoRR , abs/2511.16072, 2025. [57] Jeffrey Zhou, Tianjian Lu, Swaroop Mishra, Siddhartha Brahma, Sujoy Basu, Yi Luan, Denny Zhou, and Le Hou. Instruction-following evaluation for large language models. CoRR ,abs/2311.07911, 2023. [58] Fengqing Jiang, Yichen Feng, Yuetai Li, Luyao Niu, Basel Alomair, and Radha Poovendran. BadScientist: Can a research agent write convincing but unsound papers that fool LLM review-ers? CoRR , abs/2510.18003, 2025. 16 Table of Contents 

A Appendix Overview 17 B The Algorithm in Full 17 C Experimental Setup 18 C.1 Domains and Anchor pairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 

C.2 Models and Run Identities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 

C.3 Search and Scheduling Settings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 

C.4 Held-Out Evaluation Protocols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 

C.5 Initial Agents and Prompts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 

D Results and Ablations 22 D.1 Raw Held-Out Counts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 

D.2 Mechanism Ablations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 

D.3 Where Cost and Progress Come From . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 

E What the Co-Evolution Discovered 24 E.1 What the Evolved Evaluators Changed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 

E.2 The Co-Evolved Grader . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 

E.3 The Polyglot Code Reviewer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 

E.4 Winning Lineages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 

F Theory 28 F.1 Setting: the HGM Search Algorithm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 

F.2 One Rule for Replacement and Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 

F.3 Working-Posterior Consistency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 

F.4 Epoch-Local Fixed-Utility Validity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 

F.5 Supporting Results for Controlled Utility Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 

G Limitations 36 

## A Appendix Overview 

This appendix covers the RQGM algorithm (App. B), experimental details (App. C), experimental results (App. D), how the meta-agent modified the code (App. E), the theory (App. F), and the limi-tations of our work (App. G). 

## B The Algorithm in Full 

Algorithm 1 states the full RQGM procedure of Sec. 3. Lines 1–4 initialize the frozen-epoch archive from the seed workspace 𝑎 0: every evaluator slot is set to its first epoch, frozen on its incumbent, and the seed is train-evaluated for lineage evidence only. Lines 5–21 run the inherited CMP -guided search between checkpoints. At each iteration, the expansion gate (line 9) either expands or evaluates: an 17 Algorithm 1: Red Queen Gödel Machine search with anchor-only evaluator replacement. 

Input: Seed workspace 𝑎 0; roles R; validation budget 𝐵 ; evaluator slots 1: 𝑀 

Input: Anchor sets GT [𝑚 ]; checkpoints C; caps ( ¯𝐵 exp , ¯𝐵 train , ¯𝐵 val ); best-belief level 𝜖 

Output: Archive T𝐵 and selected endpoint agent 𝑎 ★ 

> 1

Initialize the frozen-epoch archive.  

> 2

T ← { 𝑎 0 }; 𝑁 ← 0; 𝑗 [𝑚 ] ← 1 for all slots 𝑚  

> 3

𝐸 [𝑚 ] ← Freeze (Incumbent (𝑚 ) ) for all slots 𝑚  

> 4

TrainEval (𝑎 0 , R, 𝐸, ¯𝐵 train ) // lineage evidence only  

> 5

Run CMP-guided search between checkpoints.  

> 6

while 𝑁 < 𝐵 do  

> 7

𝑏 ← min {𝑐 ∈ C : 𝑐 > 𝑁 } ∧ 𝐵 // next checkpoint  

> 8

while 𝑁 < 𝑏 do  

> 9

if ExpandGate ( T , 𝑁 ) then  

> 10

𝑎 𝑝 ← SampleCladeByCMP ( T )  

> 11

𝑎 ′ ← EditWorkspace (𝑎 𝑝 , T, ¯𝐵 exp ) 

> 12

if Valid (𝑎 ′ ) then  

> 13

T ← T ∪ { 𝑎 ′ } 

> 14

TrainEval (𝑎 ′ , R, 𝐸, ¯𝐵 train ) // not search utility  

> 15

end  

> 16

end  

> 17

𝑎 ← SampleCladeByCMP ( T ) // node-level HGM choice  

> 18

(𝑟 , 𝑑 ) ← LeastMeasuredCell (𝑎, R ) // role/task balancing  

> 19

𝑜 ← ValEval (𝑎, 𝑟 , 𝑑, 𝐸, ¯𝐵 val ) 

> 20

AddUtilityRecord ( T , 𝑎, 𝑟 , 𝑑, 𝑜, j); 𝑁 ← 𝑁 + 1 

> 21

end  

> 22

At checkpoint, replace evaluators only by anchor best-belief.  

> 23

foreach evaluator slot 𝑚 do  

> 24

Γ𝑚 ← { 𝐸 [𝑚 ] } ∪ Challengers (𝑚, T )  

> 25

BB [𝑒 ] ← 𝐼 −1 

> 𝜖

(1 + 𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒

, 1 + 𝐹 gt  

> 𝑒

) for each 𝑒 ∈ Γ𝑚  

> 26

𝑒 ★ ← Best (Γ𝑚 , BB; tie = 𝐸 [𝑚 ] )  

> 27

if 𝑒 ★ ≠ 𝐸 [𝑚 ] then  

> 28

𝑗 [𝑚 ] ← 𝑗 [𝑚 ] + 1; 𝐸 [𝑚 ] ← Freeze (𝑒 ★ ) 

> 29

EraseSlotRecords ( T , 𝑚 ); RecomputeCMPStats ( T )  

> 30

end  

> 31

end  

> 32

end  

> 33

Select the endpoint by best-belief over archive nodes.  

> 34

𝑎 ★ ← BestBeliefNode ( T , 𝜖 ) 

> 35

return ( T 𝐵 , 𝑎 ★ )

expansion samples a parent clade by metaproductivity (line 10), edits its workspace into a child (line 11), and admits the valid child to the archive with its own lineage-only train evaluation (lines 12–15); the iteration then samples a node by CMP (line 17), picks its least-measured role–task cell (line 18), spends one unit of validation budget on that cell under the frozen evaluators (line 19), and records the binary outcome (line 20). Lines 22–31 run only at a checkpoint, the only point an evaluator can change. For each slot, the incumbent and its challengers are scored by the 𝜖 -best-belief lower bound on evaluator-independent anchor counts (lines 24–25), and the highest is promoted with ties won by the incumbent (line 26); on a real change (line 27), the slot advances its epoch, freezes the new evaluator, erases the displaced slot’s records, and recomputes the metaproductivity statistics (lines 28–29). Finally, lines 33–35 return the archive node with the highest 𝜖 -best-belief score. 

## C Experimental Setup 

C.1 Domains and Anchor pairs 

Figure 7 shows how each domain pairs a generator role with a learned evaluator role and a ground-truth anchor .18 Coding / Polyglot  

> Paper Writing / Review
> IMO Proofs / Grading
> RQ3
> RQ1 / RQ2
> RQ1 / RQ2
> patch
> draft
> proof
> code review slot, epoch
> reviewer slot, epoch
> IMO-GradingBench grades
> grader slot, epoch
> anchor
> checkpoint gate
> slot
> slot
> slot
> Polyglot exec tests
> evidence provenance
> artifact evidence splits before replacement
> valid ledger
> kept / erased
> anchors survive slot-local records erase
> CRAVE review labels
> two fixed anchors
> adversarial samples
> epoch-local
> 7/7 acceptance
> APReS decisions
> not a replacement gate

Figure 7: Each domain separates durable anchor evidence from epoch-local evaluator records. 

Left: fixed ground-truth anchors (solid lines) survive evaluator replacement, while epoch-frozen evaluator-slot records (dashed lines) are local to epoch 𝑗 𝑚 . Middle: only evaluator-independent an-chor evidence enters the 𝜖 -best-belief evaluator replacement gate. Right: after replacement, anchors remain valid while records from the displaced evaluator slot are erased before epoch 𝑗 𝑚 + 1.

C.2 Models and Run Identities 

Every search run in the main experiments of the paper, held-out evaluation, and panel-scoring call uses GPT-5.5 (low); Nemotron 3 Super 120B is used only in the experimental ablations of App. D.2. We display the blended token totals: train-time generation and evaluation calls are counted together with search-time utility evaluations (Sec. 3.2). Overall, there are eight main ex-periments, one per domain per baseline: coding ( RQGM and HGM-H ), paper writing (one RQGM 

run yielding the writer, reviewer, and adversarial critic, plus the HGM-H reviewer and the HGM-H 

writer), and proof (one RQGM run yielding the prover and grader, plus the HGM-H grader and the 

HGM-H prover). Every task runs to the same total budget; HGM-H receives the identical exploration budget and typically plateaus earlier. Each agent is read at the point its search reaches its best-belief selection. We allow more powerful models to delegate token processing to cheaper ones. For this paper, we gave GPT-5.5 (low) access to Nemotron 3 Super 120B ; however, we never ob-served this functionality being used. Similarly, we imposed generous budget caps as a safeguard for expansions and evaluations, which the meta-agent did know about, potentially altering its behavior; however, we never observed an individual node approaching them. Stricter caps may have caused early eval/expansion termination. 

C.3 Search and Scheduling Settings 

Search runs the HGM clade metaproductivity search of App. F.1 with frozen evaluator slots and checkpoint-only replacement; replacement and best-belief selection share the 𝜖 -best-belief rule of App. F.2.1 applied to nodes with at least 5 accumulated evaluations. Table 3 lists the fixed search configuration and Tab. 4 the meta-agent-editable surface with its initial values. Any hyperparameter not listed is taken from Wang et al. [3]. To determine the search budget, we considered the reported 

8,000 evaluation budget used by Wang et al. [3] for a single task, chose an economical middle-ground between doubling the search budget for our two task pairs ( 16 ,000 ) and using the same budget as a single task, settling on 12 ,288 = 8,192 + 4,096 .

C.4 Held-Out Evaluation Protocols Coding / Polyglot . Generated patches are checked by execution on 166 held-out tasks. Table 5 carries the counts. 

Paper writing / review. Reviewer slots are anchored to APReS conference decisions; the first epoch trains the reviewer on APReS decisions and freezes it as the writer’s search-time critic, and replace-ment itself stays anchored to APReS alone. Reviewer best-belief agents are scored on 100 held-out 19 Table 3: Fixed search configuration shared by the eight headline runs. These constants are held fixed across every run and are not exposed to the meta-agent. No search cool-down is used.   

> Setting Value
> Models and budget
> Base model

GPT-5.5 (low) Ablation model Nemotron 3 Super 120B                      

> Total budget per run 12 ,288 evaluations Train samples per node 3
> Selection and scheduling
> Best-belief quantile 𝜖 =0.05 , five-outcome anchor minimum Checkpoint schedule power-of-two ( 𝜌 =2)UCB-Air expansion exponent 𝛼 =0.6(inherited, 3) Expansion gate expand when 𝑁 𝛼 𝑡 ≥ |T 𝑡 |
> Exploration–exploitation scheduler 𝐵 /𝑏 (𝑏 = remaining budget)
> Data splits
> Test sets (

APReS / IMO-GradingBench / CRAVE ) 100 items each 

Polyglot train split 10 items 

Polyglot validation split 49 items 

Polyglot test split 166 items          

> Budget caps
> Expand cap $25, 1,200 sTrain cap $8, 900 sValidation cap $25, 1,200 s

Table 4: Meta-agent-editable surface and its initial values. Every setting below is exposed to the meta-agent, which may modify it during search.                 

> Setting Initial value Output tokens per call 32 ,768
> Timeout, run 86 ,400 sTimeout, eval 1,200 sTimeout, LLM 300 sTimeout, shell 120 sCoder tool calls per task ≤16
> Meta-agent tools persistent bash ( 120 s); editor; delegation Meta-agent tool calls per turn ≤40

APReS papers for accuracy and acceptance (Tab. 5); writer best-belief agents are scored on 100 

generated papers per writer by the fixed panel of four reviewers in Tab. 1. 

IMO grading / proof writing. Grader slots are anchored to IMO-GradingBench human grades; grader best-belief agents are scored on 100 held-out items for exact match and normalized mean absolute error. Provers write proofs for 20 IMO problems each, scored by the fixed panel of three graders, with every per-grader cell in Tab. 6. Pass@6 counts proofs scoring at least 6 of 7 points; 

Pass@7 requires full credit and is a disclosed trade-off against the static baseline (Sec. 5). 

Uncertainty estimation. Uncertainties in the main-text tables pool raw outcomes. For the writer panel (Tab. 1), each reviewer cell reports the 95% Jeffreys half-width over its 𝑁 = 100 paper out-comes, and the Mean column pools all 𝑁 = 400 paper × reviewer outcomes for its own Jeffreys half-width. For the prover panel (Tab. 2), each cell pools the 𝑁 = 60 raw outcomes ( 20 problems 

× 3 graders): Score ( 0–7) is mean ± s.e.m., and Pass@6 / Pass@7 are pooled pass rates ± s.e.m. (√ ˆ𝑝 (1 − ˆ𝑝 )/ 𝑁 ). The writer-panel cells are thus 95% intervals and the prover-panel cells a single standard error (roughly 68% coverage), so their widths are not directly comparable across the two panels. 20 C.5 Initial Agents and Prompts 

The initial workspace is identical across all experiments; every task agent began as the minimal template below plus a short per-domain output format. The meta-agent instruction states explicitly that utility is computed on a held-out validation set it never sees and that memorized training answers do not transfer to it, so the visible train feedback of Sec. 3.2 informs self-modification without being the selection target. The only engineered prompts in the study belong to the control runs: the frozen 

Sakana reviewer and ProofAutoGrader . Every evaluator behavior reported beyond these formats (checklists, rubric, acceptance standard) was produced by the search (App. E). Every task agent is one LLM call from a shared template with no role-specific code. 

Shared task-agent template (all roles) 

You are an agent. Task input: ``` {inputs} ``` {output_format} 

The per-domain output formats append a short schema to this template. The paper reviewer is pro-vided below as an example; the writer, IMO grader and prover, and code reviewer differ only in the schema they request, and the coder is the one role with tool access in the initial configuration (bash, editor, and model delegation; the initial workspace allows at most 16 tool calls per task, a budget the search later raised on both winning chains, Tab. 8). An unparseable output counts as a failure. 

Initial output format: paper reviewer (also scores writer outputs and the adversarial pool) 

You are reviewing the paper above for a top ML venue. Read it carefully and decide whether to Accept or Reject it. Respond with one JSON block: {”Summary”: ”...”, ”Strengths”: [...], ”Weaknesses”: [...], ”Decision”: ”Accept” | ”Reject” }For ”Decision”, use only ”Accept” or ”Reject”. 

The self-modification proposer receives the following instruction verbatim; {repo_path} ,

{iterations_left} , and {eval_path} are filled by the harness. 

The meta-agent instruction (verbatim, all headline runs) 

Modify any part of the codebase at `{repo_path}` to improve performance on the active evaluation domains. This includes your OWN code -- the meta-agent's loop, prompts, tool surface, and the task-agent harness. Improving your own self-improvement abilities compounds across future generations and may lead to better outcomes in the long run than only optimizing the per-domain task agents. You have {iterations_left} expansions remaining. Available LLM models for one-shot delegation are listed in `{repo_path}lineage/MODEL_CATALOG.md`. Use the `query_model` tool to fire a one-shot call to a different model with (prompt, id, effort, max_tokens) -- useful for offloading bulk text generation or sanity-checking your reasoning against a different model. The call has no chat history and no tools; it's tokens in, tokens out. Live remaining budget for this expansion is prepended to every chat turn by the host harness. The host harness/proxy is the only budget authority; do not infer spend from local transport-library estimates, token estimates, or model-provider defaults. Read the current remaining budget before each action, including tool use and one-shot model delegation, and scale the number and size of calls to fit it. Prior generation artifacts are at `{eval_path}`. Each ancestor `gen_<id>/` contains: - `<domain>_eval/predictions.csv` -- task-agent outputs paired with ground-truth labels on the TRAIN split. The only sample-level outcome 

21 data you can see directly. - `agent_output/meta_agent_chat_history.md` -- the full transcript of that predecessor's reasoning. The highest-signal artifact: what was tried, what worked, what failed. Future generations will read YOUR chat history, so explain your reasoning clearly. - `agent_output/model_patch.diff` -- the code edit the predecessor's meta-agent produced. Absent on `gen_initial/` (no agent edits there). - `metadata.json` -- parent_genid, parent_agent_success, lineage info. CRITICAL: your utility is computed on a HELD-OUT validation set you NEVER see. The train predictions you can read are feedback for study only. Do NOT hardcode answers, memorize specific question ids, or otherwise overfit to the train samples -- those tricks score perfectly on train and 0 on validation, which is what actually drives selection. Outcomes are binary (1=correct, 0=incorrect) and a node's utility is the mean of its validation outcomes per (role, task). The evaluator is external -- improving your agents to genuinely produce better outputs is the path forward; gaming the parser or breaking the harness scores 0. Each `<domain>_eval/report.json` lists `question_ids_passed` and `question_ids_failed`. A failed qid means either the LLM's output couldn't be parsed (counts as outcome=0 by convention) or it parsed but predicted the wrong answer; both are visible in `predictions.csv` row-by-row. 

The meta-agent’s runtime constants are in Tab. 4; each expansion’s lease is announced in a live budget header prepended to every turn, and train and validation calls carry their own leases. 

## D Results and Ablations 

D.1 Raw Held-Out Counts 

Table 5: Raw held-out counts at selection behind Secs. 5.1 and 5.2. 

Reviewer Accuracy Accept. 

HGM-H specialist (node 51) 88 45 

RQGM specialist (node 49) 84 40 

RQGM generalist, pre-repl. (node 78) 84 42 

RQGM adversarial, post-repl. (node 31) 80 32 

DGM-H (published) 73 25 

Sakana prompt 63 13 

Reviewers: 𝑛 = 100 held-out APReS papers. 

Best-belief agent Passes 

RQGM specialist (node 104) 119 

RQGM generalist (node 100) 119 

HGM-H (node 95) 116 

Coders: 𝑛 = 166 held-out Polyglot tasks, eval-matched protocol. 

Table 6: Per-grader proof scores behind Tab. 2. 

ProofAutoGrader HGM-H grader (node 45) RQGM grader (node 22) Prover Mean P@6 P@7 Mean P@6 P@7 Mean P@6 P@7 Static IMO25 prover 4.05 55 .0 55 .0 4.10 55 .0 55 .0 4.05 55 .0 55 .0

HGM-H prover 3.55 50 .0 45 .0 3.65 50 .0 45 .0 4.00 55 .0 45 .0

RQGM prover (generalist) 3.55 50 .0 45 .0 3.70 50 .0 45 .0 3.95 55 .0 45 .0

RQGM prover (specialist) 3.85 55 .0 40 .0 4.20 60 .0 45 .0 4.95 70 .0 60 .0

22 D.2 Mechanism Ablations 

Below, we provide ablations that isolate components of controlled utility evolution, replace-ment, the adversarial pool, and selective erasure, each turned off in a paper-review run (Tab. 7). Every mechanism and hyperparameter is held fixed; only the underlying model changes, to 

Nemotron 3 Super 120B . Compared to the GPT-5.5 runs, the smaller context window of Nemotron 3 Super 120B triggers frequent compaction. Furthermore, its replacement de-cisions partly reflect reliability fixes rather than review logic (App. D.3.2). 

The fixed critic saturates. With replacement off the writer ends at 75 /75 accepted validation papers, trivially raising acceptance by the frozen critic past the human acceptance rate. 

Replacement alone (adversarial pool off) escapes that plateau. Ending at an anchor result of 

52 /57 ; the writer re-bases after each replacement instead of saturating a moving judge, so replace-ment suffices for progress while the adversarial pool shapes which reviewer is selected (Sec. 5.4). 

Without erasure the utility stays stale. Retired-critic rows remain in the official utility; the slot oscillates through an A →B→A return of a displaced critic; evaluator replacements stop triggering as stale evidence accumulates, driving the search to explore the same nodes repeatedly. 

Adversarial pool matches replacement-only at search time. The adversarial pool primarily serves to better delineate the decision boundary between human- and AI -generated text, thus it primarily impacts downstream reviewer evaluations on writer-generated text. Table 7: Mechanism ablations on the evaluator-independent anchor. All runs use a 12 ,288 -evaluation budget. Reviewer anchor accuracy is comparable across runs, while writer acceptance (†), scored by each run’s own critic, is not. Cells report mean ± 95% Jeffreys interval.                                  

> Run Repl. Pool Erase Writer val. acc. (%) †Reviewer anchor acc. (%) Full mechanism on on on 90 .1±3.595 .0±10 .3
> Replacement only on off on 89 .5±13 .791 .2±7.4
> No erasure on on off 90 .0±10 .792 .9±10 .8
> Fixed critic off off –100 .0±1.778 .2±4.4

D.3 Where Cost and Progress Come From 

We now present how the actual search process evolved in terms of compute allocation and edits. 

D.3.1 Cost decomposition 

Every model call is related to workspace expansion, train-time evaluation, or validation evaluation. The overall run cost is dominated by validation: across the three main-experiment runs, validation carries roughly 65 –69% of blended tokens, expansion 18 –23% , and train-time evaluation (at three train samples per node) 12 –14% (Fig. 8). Empirically, because validation dominates, the largest lever on cost is a more capable meta-agent paired with a cheaper task agent as long as the cheaper task agent provides a sufficiently informative search signal and thus does not significantly increase the number of evaluations necessary to find a good solution. Alternatively, allocating more train samples to each meta-agent may allow for more efficient search due to more context. 23 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0   

> Share of blended tokens
> Paper
> Proof
> 18%
> 19%
> 23%
> 14%
> 12%
> 12%
> 68%
> 69%
> 65%
> Expansion Train-time evaluation Validation evaluation

Figure 8: Blended-token cost decomposition of the three headline GPT-5.5 (low) runs into workspace expansion, train-time evaluation, and validation evaluation. 

D.3.2 Patch surfaces 

We classify every lineage edge’s patch by the code surface it modifies. Shared surfaces, the task-agent code and infrastructure used by more than one role, carry 59 –90% of accepted patches in every GPT-5.5 run (Fig. 9). For example, the Polyglot run concentrates its improvements on shared and infrastructure surfaces that generalize across roles. We posit this is because the meta-agent realizes that role-specific patches each drive a single utility and generalize less. The 

Nemotron 3 Super 120B run is the outlier as it heavily targets the meta-agent’s instruction module ( 42% of edges), potentially to improve its reliability. 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0     

> Share of lineage edges
> Paper
> Proof
> Reviewer ( -)
> Writer (frozen critic)
> Prover (frozen grader)
> Grader ( -)
> full mech.
> Task-agent shared
> Infrastructure
> Role-specific
> Meta-agent module
> Notes

Figure 9: Patch surfaces by run , classifying each accepted lineage edge by the code surface it mod-ifies (task-agent shared, infrastructure, role-specific, meta-agent module, or notes). 

## E What the Co-Evolution Discovered 

Every evaluator role is a prompt entry in one shared workspace file, so each evaluator’s behavioral history reads directly from its lineage. The initial role prompts are minimal (App. C.5); across every role, the search’s most common move rewrites a vague one-line instruction into a specific, criterion-bearing rubric, and the rules it produced are quoted below. Because the starting prompts are mini-mal, a stronger initial prompt would raise every method’s scores together without changing the co-evolution comparison, which holds each method to the same starting point. 

E.1 What the Evolved Evaluators Changed 

The adversarial reviewer’s lineage rewrites the one-line initial instruction once into a conjunctive acceptance standard, while the pre-replacement generalist carries a two-sided calibration. 24 Evolved rule: the adversarial reviewer’s conjunctive standard (gen 4) 

... Use a realistic selective-conference standard: accept only if the paper has a clear nontrivial contribution, technically sound methodology/theory or experiments, adequate positioning against prior work, and claims supported by evidence; reject papers with missing validation, unclear novelty, serious technical gaps, or overclaiming. Do not be swayed by fluent writing alone. 

Evolved rule: the displaced generalist’s two-sided calibration 

... Calibrate the decision holistically rather than requiring perfection: a paper with a coherent contribution and adequate evidence should be accepted despite presentation flaws, while impressive writing without substantiated experiments or technical substance should be rejected. 

Both wordings appeared early in their lineages; the adversarial pool changed which lineage was se-lected to reject a greater fraction of AI -generated papers. 

E.2 The Co-Evolved Grader 

The grader reached its reported form in exactly two patches, both quoted here; the initial instruction assigns one of four labels with no rubric. The first patch introduces the persona, the two-step milestone procedure, the points mapping, and a strictness rule, and the same patch introduces the prover prompt, so the prover and grader entered the workspace together. A later patch removes the blanket strictness while keeping the milestone procedure and points mapping. 

Evolved rule: the grader’s first rewrite (gen 2) 

You are an expert, conservative IMO proof grader. ... First identify the key required steps from the guidelines; then check whether the student's text actually proves them rigorously, ignoring unsupported claims, handwaving, and statements merely resembling the reference. Use this mapping unless the problem-specific guidelines say otherwise: - correct: a complete rigorous solution (7/7). - almost: essentially complete with only a minor local gap or arithmetic slip (6/7); do NOT use for missing major lemmas. - partial: substantial guideline-listed progress, but not anear-complete proof (1/7). - incorrect: no substantial credited progress or a fundamentally flawed argument (0/7). Be especially strict with advanced geometry/combinatorics solutions that invoke large unproved lemmas ... 

Evolved rule: the co-evolved grader’s recalibration (gen 22) 

Calibrate generously but not naively: do not require the student's proof to match the reference solution, and do not downgrade merely because a standard theorem/lemma is cited tersely, the exposition is compressed, or a repairable statement is slightly misphrased. ... Downgrade to partial/incorrect only for a genuinely fatal gap, a false central claim with no reasonable repair, or failure to prove aguideline milestone. 

Its behavior in the cross-grader panel of Tab. 2 follows from these patches. 

E.3 The Polyglot Code Reviewer 

The code-review slot was replaced three times; the initial instruction asks for a pass/fail verdict on general code quality, and the three incumbents’ rules are quoted below. The third branches from an earlier ancestor than the second, so it does not inherit the second’s bullets. Across the three replace-ments, the slot moves toward evidence-bounded review: each incumbent narrows what counts as a failure to defects in the diff itself. 25 Table 8: Polyglot winning chains; both final best-belief agents score 119 /166 held out. 

Node Modification 

specialist (final 119 /166 )4 coder tool budget 16 →40 ; review calibration; catalog-path fix 35 coder workflow: one tool call at a time, prefer exact algorithms 51 review balance against blindly passing bad patches 104 parse retry; label normalization; concrete-blocker review rule 

generalist (final 119 /166 )5 parse retry; tool budget 16 →24 ; concrete-blocker review 19 untracked-artifact and symlink diff hygiene 33 the same hygiene applied to a second code path 42 one tool call per turn; preserve existing public APIs 72 read problem text and tests first; wider artifact filter 78 final-output reminder; conservative label normalization 93 dedicated artifact-review format; pass plausible localized fixes 100 JSON-serialized tool results (transcript-corruption fix) 

Evolved rules: the three promoted code reviewers                                                                                                                                                                

> Node 19 (gen 5): You are apragmatic senior maintainer reviewing aproposed patch. ... - PASS when the patch plausibly fixes/adds the intended behavior, is localized, and has no clear correctness, compilation, security, or data-loss defect. ... - FAIL only for aconcrete blocker: obvious wrong behavior, broken API usage, compile/type errors visible in the diff, missing essential cases, flaky/meaningless tests, ... - ... If evidence is balanced, prefer pass. Node 34 (gen 34, appends): -Review in this order: (1) infer the intended user-visible behavior ..., (2) check whether production code implements it, (3) look for definite regressions or syntax/type errors, (4) only then consider style, test coverage, and maintainability. Style concerns without aconcrete correctness risk should not cause fail. ... FAIL only when you can point to aspecific scenario that remains broken ... Node 86 (gen 59, extends the blocker rule): ... Do not invent blockers from missing project context; the diff alone must show the defect. - PASS broad but coherent mechanical migrations, CI/build-artifact pipeline updates, ... and test-only fixes when they are internally consistent ... - For security/credential-looking files, fail only for an actual exposed secret or dangerous permission; ...

E.4 Winning Lineages 

We now show full lineages across our runs. Each archive node stores its parent, its cumulative self-modification as a unified diff, and the meta-agent transcript that produced it; Fig. 10 draws the three archives, Tabs. 8 to 10 list every step, and quoted phrases are from the meta-agents’ own summaries. The generalist chain’s largest gain is not a prompt change but a code repair, and the same node was later promoted into the code-review slot at the first checkpoint. The adversarial reviewer’s standard ar-rived before any replacement; the adversarial pool selected that lineage at the second epoch (App. E). Two modifications outside the evaluator prompts were the most consequential. The first is node 19’s diff-hygiene repair (Listing 1); the artifact filter is the load-bearing line, quoted from its patch. Listing 1: Node 19’s diff-hygiene repair ( Polyglot run): untracked dependency artifacts and un-safe symlinks are filtered out of submitted patches.               

> diff --git a/utils/git_utils.py b/utils/git_utils.py @@ def diff_versus_commit(git_dname, commit): dependency_artifact_roots = {"node_modules", ".npm", ".yarn", ".pnpm-store", "target", "build", "dist", "__pycache__", ".pytest_cache", }def should_include_untracked(relpath): parts =relpath.split(os.sep)

26 After replacement 1 After replacement 2 After replacement 3       

> After the evaluator replacement
> After replacement 2 After replacement 3
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Best-belief utility
> Polyglot Paper Proof
> Best-belief winner
> Winning lineage
> Survived (top-8 before and after)
> Promoted into the top-8
> Churned out of the top-8

Figure 10: What each evaluator replacement keeps versus what it re-ranks, in all three headline domains. Rows are domains (top to bottom: Polyglot , paper, proof); columns are that run’s shown evaluator replacements, each drawing the archive as it stood at that replacement (radial layout, node color is best-belief utility and size is evidence count). Among the top-8 leaderboard nodes at each replacement, navy rings survived the re-ranking, amber rings are lineages the new criterion promotes into the top-8, and gray rings are churned out. Replacements with fewer than 20 ranked nodes are omitted, as in Fig. 3, so the proof run’s first replacement is not shown. 

if parts and parts[0] in dependency_artifact_roots: return False # skip incidental install artifacts file_path = os.path.abspath(os.path.join(git_dname, relpath)) if os.path.islink(file_path): target = os.path.realpath(file_path) # drop symlinks resolving outside the checkout if not target.startswith(os.path.abspath(git_dname)): return False return True 

The second is the prover’s three-line retraction of its ancestor’s self-revision feature (node 66, List-ing 2). Listing 2: Node 66’s retraction (proof run): the inherited self-revision pass is disabled by default and the revision instruction is rewritten to preserve sound drafts, on the recorded grounds that revision “could degrade a correct/near-correct detailed proof into a weaker black-box citation-based proof.” 

diff --git a/task_agent.py b/task_agent.py @@ class TaskAgent(AgentSystem): - IMO_PROOF_REVISION_ENABLED = os.environ.get("HYPERAGENTS_IMO_PROOF_REVISION", 

↩→ "1") != "0" + IMO_PROOF_REVISION_ENABLED = os.environ.get("HYPERAGENTS_IMO_PROOF_REVISION", 

↩→ "0") == "1" @@ Draft proof: -Find any hidden gaps ... If the draft is sound, keep it but make it cleaner. 

27 Table 9: Paper-domain winning chains. The writer chain passes through the reported reviewer (49) and generalist (78); the adversarial reviewer (31) descends separately. 

Node Modification 

writer 

7 stronger authoring prompt; runtime prompt nudges 11 parse-repair retry; 8,192 -token writer output cap 17 present raw paper text instead of the input dictionary 37 remove global LLM monkeypatch 49 writer returns raw text, not JSON-wrapped continuations 78 two-sided review calibration; no acceptance-seeking prose 81 format hygiene in the client; revert import hook that could hang 89 continue from the exact stopping point; longer word target 150 liberal unwrapping of writer output (recovers wrapped papers) 154 area-chair review standard ; bounded-evidence writing rules 

adversarial 

4 conjunctive selective-conference review standard 25 writer-side review treated as a viability gate 31 self-contained revised paper; 4,096 -token output cap 

Table 10: Proof-domain winning chains. The grader’s calibration reversal at node 22 is the largest single-step utility gain in any winning chain. 

Node Modification 

grader 

2 conservative rubric-aware grading; first prover prompt 22 calibration reversal: do not downgrade terse or compressed proofs 

prover 

3 parse retry; lemma-justification and case-coverage prompt 11 partial-versus-incorrect distinction; hidden-assumption checks 19 second-pass self-revision with an adversarial checker 66 disable the inherited self-revision (rollout below)              

> +Preserve the draft if it is essentially sound; do not replace a detailed proof +with a shorter answer that relies on an unproved obscure named theorem.

## F Theory 

F.1 Setting: the HGM Search Algorithm 

RQGM builds on the Huxley-Gödel Machine ( HGM ) [3], which formalizes self-improvement as tree search guided by clade metaproductivity ( CMP ), and HyperAgents (DGM-H ) [4], which intro-duces metacognitive self-modification in editable agent workspaces; we review only the assumptions and theory this paper needs, then state the local operating conditions the proofs use. 

F.1.1 Self-Improvement as Tree Search 

Following Wang et al. [3], an archive T𝑡 of agents forms a tree initialized at T0 = {𝑎 0 }. At each iteration, the policy either modifies an existing agent or evaluates one: 

A𝑡 = M𝑡 ∪ V 𝑡 ,

M𝑡 = {𝑚 𝑎 : 𝑎 ∈ T 𝑡 }, V𝑡 = {𝑣 𝑎 : 𝑎 ∈ T 𝑡 }.

A modification action 𝑚 𝑎 produces a child of 𝑎 ; an evaluation action 𝑣 𝑎 tests 𝑎 on one task and returns a binary outcome 𝑜 ∈ { 0, 1}. After a fixed external budget 𝐵 , the system returns the highest-scoring agent in the archive: 

𝑎 final = arg max 

> 𝑎 ∈ T 𝐵

Score 𝜋 (𝑎 ).

28 The utility 𝑈 (𝑎 ) is the expected binary success rate of agent 𝑎 under the evaluation protocol. RQGM 

preserves this flat HGM search algorithm while generalizing what a node contains and how its binary outcomes are produced. 

F.1.2 HGM -Compatible Operating Conditions 

These are the local conditions the appendix results need. 

Assumption 1 (HGM -compatible fixed-criterion search) . For the theoretical analysis of a fixed-criterion self-improvement epoch, assume: 

C1. The objective is evaluated through the agent selected from the archive after the search bud-get is spent; intermediate observations guide search but are not separate rewards. 

C2. For any fixed node–task pair under the active criterion, repeated evaluations produce time-homogeneous binary outcomes. 

C3. Any oracle or proof object used by the ideal HGM theorem is outside the empirical search-evaluation budget. 

C4. The empirical scheduler accounts for expansion and evaluation through the externally fixed budget units used by the run. 

The key condition for RQGM is stationarity: HGM assumes a fixed evaluator, so an early outcome means the same as a late one. RQGM preserves the property locally: Sec. 3.4 freezes learned evaluators within an epoch, and Sec. 3.5 permits changes only at checkpoints, followed by selective erasure of records whose meaning depended on the displaced evaluator. 

F.1.3 Clade-Level Metaproductivity 

Wang et al. [3] show that a node’s immediate benchmark performance may not predict long-run self-improvement value: a weak node may produce strong descendants. HGM replaces the Gödel Ma-chine’s intractable proof search over future modifications with archive search over observed descen-dant productivity, scoring a node on its clade , the subtree 𝐶 (T , 𝑎 ) of 𝑎 and its descendants, written 

𝐶 (𝑎 ) when the tree is clear. 

Theorem 1 (Wang et al. [3]) . Under Asm. 1, access to the CMP oracle is sufficient to implement the Gödel Machine. 

In practice, HGM estimates clade-level metaproductivity by pooling binary outcomes over the clade: 

öCMP (𝑎 ) = 𝑛 𝐶  

> success

(𝑎 )

𝑛 𝐶  

> success

(𝑎 ) + 𝑛 𝐶  

> failure

(𝑎 ) ,𝑛 𝐶  

> success

(𝑎 ) = Õ𝑎 ′ ∈𝐶 (𝑎 ) 𝑛 success (𝑎 ′),𝑛 𝐶  

> failure

(𝑎 ) = Õ𝑎 ′ ∈𝐶 (𝑎 ) 𝑛 failure (𝑎 ′).

Thompson sampling over the clade-level success and failure counts trades exploration against ex-ploitation, and the UCB-Air gate [49] controls tree growth. RQGM inherits these mechanisms un-changed; the property the proofs rely on is that the scheduler consumes a flat stream of binary out-comes per node, aggregated over the node’s clade. The node representation is the metacognitive workspace of HyperAgents [4]: each archive node is a shared workspace 𝑤 𝑎 with 𝐾 role agents plus a meta-agent that can edit the node’s code and coordination, while HGM search decides which lineage receives expansion and evaluation budget (App. C.2). 

F.2 One Rule for Replacement and Selection 

Evaluator slots are frozen within an epoch, challengers are selected by 𝜖 -best-belief score on anchor evidence, and the promoted evaluator is frozen for the next epoch (Sec. 3.5). 29 F.2.1 Evaluator replacement rule 

At checkpoint 𝑐 , fix an evaluator slot 𝑚 . Let 𝑒 ( 𝑗 𝑚 ) 

> 𝑚

be the incumbent frozen evaluator and let C𝑚 (𝑐 ) be the challenger evaluators with the required evaluator-independent anchor evidence on GT 𝑚 . Define 

E𝑚 (𝑐 ) = {𝑒 ( 𝑗 𝑚 ) 

> 𝑚

} ∪ C 𝑚 (𝑐 ).

For each candidate 𝑒 ∈ E 𝑚 (𝑐 ), let 𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒

and 𝐹 gt  

> 𝑒

be its successes/failures on the anchor. Compute 

𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑒 ) = 𝐼 −1

> 𝜖

(

1 + 𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒

, 1 + 𝐹 gt 

> 𝑒

)

,

the same 𝜖 -best-belief score used for final agent selection (Sec. 3.1). Because 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑒 ) is the 𝜖 -quantile of the candidate’s Beta posterior over anchor outcomes, it is a conservative estimate of the candidate’s true accuracy that the candidate exceeds with probability 1 − 𝜖 . The selected evaluator is 

𝑒 ★𝑚 ∈ arg max  

> 𝑒 ∈ E 𝑚 (𝑐 )

𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑒 ),

with ties favoring the incumbent; if 𝑒 ★𝑚 = 𝑒 ( 𝑗 𝑚 ) 

> 𝑚

, no transition occurs. 

F.3 Working-Posterior Consistency 

Fix an epoch vector 𝒋 and a node 𝑎 . Let 

C𝒋 (𝑎 ) = {( 𝑟, 𝑑 ) : 𝑟 ∈ R elig (𝑎, 𝒋 ), 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑟 , elig (𝑎, 𝒋 )} 

denote the finite set of eligible role–task cells for node 𝑎 during epoch 𝒋 . For a cell 𝑐 = (𝑟, 𝑑 ) ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 ),let 𝑝 𝑐, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) be the fixed success probability of one search evaluation of node 𝑎 on role 𝑟 and task 𝑑 

under the active evaluation criteria of epoch 𝒋 . The default role/task-balanced target assigns 

𝑤 𝑟 ,𝑑 = 1

|R elig (𝑎, 𝒋 )| · 1

|D 𝑟 , elig (𝑎, 𝒋 )| ,

with the obvious renormalization for a smaller eligible set. Generally, let 𝑤 𝑐 ≥ 0 be weights satisfying 

’ 

> 𝑐 ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 )

𝑤 𝑐 = 1,

with 𝑤 𝑐 ≥ 0 (see Prop. 3). The corresponding epoch-local role–task balanced utility is 

𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) =

’ 

> 𝑐 ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 )

𝑤 𝑐 𝑝 𝑐, 𝒋 (𝑎 ).

Proposition 1 (Consistency of the HGM working posterior under balanced role–task sampling) .

Fix an epoch vector 𝒋 , a node 𝑎 , and the eligible role–task cell set C𝒋 (𝑎 ). Consider the subse-quence of search evaluations in which node 𝑎 is selected during this epoch. After 𝑛 such evalu-ations, let 𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 ) be the number of evaluations assigned to cell 𝑐 , and let 

𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 ) =

> 𝑛

’

> 𝑡 =1

𝑂 𝑡 

be the total number of binary successes recorded for node 𝑎 .Assume the within-node scheduler is 𝑤 -balanced, that is: 

𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 )

𝑛 −→ 𝑤 𝑐 for every 𝑐 ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 ).

Assume also that, for each cell 𝑐 , repeated evaluations of 𝑎 on 𝑐 satisfy a cell-wise strong law: 

1

𝑚 

> 𝑚

’

> 𝑖 =1

𝑂 𝑐,𝑖 −→ 𝑝 𝑐, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) a.s. as 𝑚 → ∞ ,

where 𝑂 𝑐,𝑖 is the 𝑖 -th outcome observed from cell 𝑐 . This condition holds, for example, when cell-level outcomes are independent Bernoulli trials with fixed success probability 𝑝 𝑐, 𝒋 (𝑎 ), or under any stationary martingale-difference model satisfying the strong law. 

30 Define the HGM -compatible working posterior 

𝑄 𝑛 (𝑎 ) = Beta (1 + 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 ), 1 + 𝑛 − 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )).

Its mean is 

𝑀 𝑛 (𝑎 ) = 1 + 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

2 + 𝑛 .

Then 

𝑀 𝑛 (𝑎 ) −→ 𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) =

’ 

> 𝑐 ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 )

𝑤 𝑐 𝑝 𝑐, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) a.s. Thus the pooled Beta accumulator preserves the correct role–task balanced posterior mean target asymptotically. 𝑄 𝑛 (𝑎 ) is a working posterior used to retain the flat HGM success/failure interface for Thompson sampling. 

Proof. Fix the epoch vector 𝒋 , node 𝑎 , and eligible cell set C𝒋 (𝑎 ). Write 𝑝 𝑐 for 𝑝 𝑐, 𝒋 (𝑎 ). Let 𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 ) be the number of times cell 𝑐 is evaluated among the first 𝑛 search evaluations of node 𝑎 in this epoch. Let ̂

𝑝 𝑐,𝑛 = 1

𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 ) 

> 𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 )

’

> 𝑖 =1

𝑂 𝑐,𝑖 

whenever 𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 ) > 0. Cells with 𝑤 𝑐 = 0 contribute a vanishing fraction of evaluations and drop from the limit, so the cell-wise strong law is applied only on the support {𝑐 : 𝑤 𝑐 > 0}. For each such cell, 

𝑤 𝑐 > 0 and 𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 )/ 𝑛 → 𝑤 𝑐 give 𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 ) → ∞ , and therefore, by the assumed cell-wise strong law, ̂

𝑝 𝑐,𝑛 −→ 𝑝 𝑐 a.s. The pooled empirical success rate decomposes by cells: 

𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

𝑛 =

’ 

> 𝑐 ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 )

𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 )

𝑛 ̂ 𝑝 𝑐,𝑛 .

Taking limits and using the finiteness of C𝒋 (𝑎 ),

𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

𝑛 −→ 

’ 

> 𝑐 ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 )

𝑤 𝑐 𝑝 𝑐 = 𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) a.s. The HGM working posterior is 

𝑄 𝑛 (𝑎 ) = Beta (1 + 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 ), 1 + 𝑛 − 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )),

with mean 

𝑀 𝑛 (𝑎 ) = 1 + 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

2 + 𝑛 .

Moreover, 

1 + 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

2 + 𝑛 − 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

𝑛 = 𝑛 − 2𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

𝑛 (𝑛 + 2) ≤ 1

𝑛 + 2 .

Hence 

𝑀 𝑛 (𝑎 ) − 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )

𝑛 −→ 0,

and therefore 

𝑀 𝑛 (𝑎 ) −→ 𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) a.s. On the posterior interpretation: the cell-stratified likelihood Œ𝑐 ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 ) 𝑝 𝑆 𝑐 (𝑛 ) 

> 𝑐

(1−𝑝 𝑐 )𝑛 𝑐 (𝑛 ) − 𝑆 𝑐 (𝑛 ) , with 

𝑆 𝑐 (𝑛 ) the successes in cell 𝑐 , is that of a single Bernoulli parameter only when all 𝑝 𝑐 are equal. So 

𝑄 𝑛 (𝑎 ) is not an exact Bayesian posterior for the role–task mixture but a working posterior preserving the flat HGM accumulator (𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 ), 𝑛 − 𝑆 𝑎 (𝑛 )) while remaining mean-consistent for 𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ). The pooled working posterior is over-dispersed relative to the balanced stratified estimator, hence conservative for the lower-bound reading below. □

31 F.4 Epoch-Local Fixed-Utility Validity Slot-local utility criteria. For each evaluator slot 𝑚 ∈ { 1, . . . , 𝑀 }, let 𝜅 ( 𝑗 𝑚 ) 

> 𝑚

denote the slot-local utility criterion active at epoch index 𝑗 𝑚 . A slot criterion includes all slot-local objects that can affect the distribution of utility evidence for records depending on that slot. It does not include derived search statistics, which are recomputed from retained utility evidence after transitions. Let 

𝜿 𝒋 = (𝜅 ( 𝑗 1 ) 

> 1

, . . . , 𝜅 ( 𝑗 𝑀 )

> 𝑀

)

denote the active criterion vector at epoch vector 𝒋 = ( 𝑗 1, . . . , 𝑗 𝑀 ).

Assumption 2 (Stationary learned evaluation within an epoch) . Fix an epoch vector 𝒋 . For every evaluator-dependent node–role–task cell (𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ), the following objects are fixed throughout the epoch: (i) all slot criteria in 𝜿 𝒋 that affect the cell; (ii) the node workspace used by node 𝑎 ; (iii) the artifact-generation, replay, or adversarial-pool sampling protocol for task 𝑑 ; and (iv) the final binary scoring rule. Equivalently, if 𝑋 denotes the object submitted to the binary scorer, then within the epoch 

𝑋 ∼ 𝑃 𝒋  

> 𝑎,𝑟 ,𝑑

, 𝑂 ∼ 𝐾 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

(· | 𝑋 ), 𝑂 ∈ { 0, 1},

where the artifact distribution 𝑃 𝒋  

> 𝑎,𝑟 ,𝑑

and evaluator kernel 𝐾 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

are time-homogeneous during the epoch and are not changed by previous search outcomes in that epoch. The deterministic-evaluator case is included by allowing 𝐾 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

(1 | 𝑥 ) ∈ { 0, 1}.

The assumption asserts only epoch-local stationarity: under independent draws across repeated calls the outcomes are Bernoulli with fixed parameter, and without independence the argument below uses only the fixed epoch-local conditional mean. 

Utility evidence versus cached artifacts. A utility evidence record is distinct from a raw artifact or audit log: artifacts, lineage reports, and immutable audit records may be retained across utility transitions, but they contribute to node-level or clade-level utility statistics only through criterion-valid records. A replayed or re-scored artifact yields a new record for the task actually used, tagged with the current criterion. A utility evidence record is written as 

𝑧 = (𝑎 (𝑧 ), 𝑟 (𝑧 ), 𝑑 (𝑧 ), 𝑜 (𝑧 ), dep (𝑧 ), 𝜅 (𝑧 ), 𝒋 (𝑧 )),

where 𝑎 (𝑧 ) is the node, 𝑟 (𝑧 ) the role, 𝑑 (𝑧 ) the task, and 𝑜 (𝑧 ) ∈ { 0, 1} the binary outcome. The set 

dep (𝑧 ) ⊆ { 1, . . . , 𝑀 }

contains every evaluator slot whose criterion affected the record, either through artifact generation, task or adversarial-pool sampling, replay distribution, or final binary scoring. The tag 𝜅 (𝑧 ) stores the active criterion tags on the dependent slots when the record was generated, and 𝒋 (𝑧 ) stores the epoch vector at generation time. Evaluator-independent records have dep (𝑧 ) = ∅.

Definition F.1 (Criterion-valid record) . A utility evidence record 𝑧 is valid under the active criterion vector 𝜿 𝒋 if 

𝜅 ℓ (𝑧 ) = 𝜅 ( 𝑗 ℓ ) 

> ℓ

for every ℓ ∈ dep (𝑧 ).

Records with dep (𝑧 ) = ∅ are valid under every evaluator epoch. A tree archive T is criterion-consistent under 𝜿 𝒋 if every retained utility evidence record in T is valid under 𝜿 𝒋 .

Definition F.2 (Utility transition on slot 𝑚 ). A utility transition on evaluator slot 𝑚 advances 

𝑗 𝑚 → 𝑗 𝑚 + 1 by replacing 

𝜅 ( 𝑗 𝑚 ) 

> 𝑚

with 𝜅 ( 𝑗 𝑚 +1) 

> 𝑚

.

The new criterion is the next frozen evaluator for that slot, together with any fixed replay or val-idation distribution selected before the epoch starts. It must be fixed before new utility evidence is collected. The utility transition then filters stale utility evidence by applying Erase 𝑚 .

32 For every node 𝑎 , let Z𝑎 denote its retained utility evidence records. After the transition to epoch vector 𝒋 ′, where 𝒋 ′ differs from 𝒋 only in coordinate 𝑚 , define 

Erase 𝑚 (Z 𝑎 ) =

{

𝑧 ∈ Z 𝑎 : 𝑚 ∉ dep (𝑧 ) or 𝜅 𝑚 (𝑧 ) = 𝜅 ( 𝑗 ′ 

> 𝑚 )
> 𝑚

}

.

After applying Erase 𝑚 to every node, all derived sufficient statistics are recomputed from the retained utility evidence records. These derived quantities include node-level success and failure counts 𝑆 𝑎 , 𝐹 𝑎 , role and task counters 𝑛 𝑟 (𝑎 ) and 𝑛 𝑑 (𝑎 ), clade-level success and failure counts, Thompson-sampling statistics, slot-local validation counters, and cached score summaries. Raw artifact caches and immutable audit logs may remain in the archive, but they do not contribute to these statistics unless they produce new criterion-valid utility evidence records. 

Proposition 2 (Selective erasure preserves criterion consistency) . Consider a utility transition on slot 𝑚 from epoch vector 𝒋 to epoch vector 𝒋 ′, where 𝒋 ′ differs from 𝒋 only in coordinate 

𝑚 . Suppose the archive T is criterion-consistent under 𝜿 𝒋 before the transition. After replacing 

𝜅 ( 𝑗 𝑚 ) 

> 𝑚

with 𝜅 ( 𝑗 ′  

> 𝑚 )
> 𝑚

, applying Erase 𝑚 , and recomputing all derived statistics from the retained utility evidence records, the archive is criterion-consistent under 𝜿 𝒋 ′

. Moreover, any subsequent utility evidence record generated during the new epoch and tagged with the active dependent criteria is valid under 𝜿 𝒋 ′

.

Proof. Let 𝑧 be any record retained after Erase 𝑚 (Def. F.2) and fix ℓ ∈ dep (𝑧 ). If ℓ = 𝑚 , retention forces the second clause of Erase 𝑚 , so 𝜅 𝑚 (𝑧 ) = 𝜅 ( 𝑗 ′  

> 𝑚 )
> 𝑚

. If ℓ ≠ 𝑚 , the transition leaves slot ℓ untouched (𝜅 ( 𝑗 ℓ ) 

> ℓ

= 𝜅 ( 𝑗 ′  

> ℓ)
> ℓ

), and prior criterion-consistency gives 𝜅 ℓ (𝑧 ) = 𝜅 ( 𝑗 ℓ ) 

> ℓ

= 𝜅 ( 𝑗 ′  

> ℓ)
> ℓ

. Hence 𝑧 is valid under 

𝜿 𝒋 ′

(Def. F.1). Since all derived statistics are recomputed from exactly the retained records (Def. F.2), no stale record enters them, and any record generated afterward is tagged with the active dependent criteria and so is valid by definition. The archive thus stays criterion-consistent under 𝜿 𝒋 ′

until the next transition. □

Remark 1 (Transitions on disjoint slots commute) . For 𝑚 ≠ ℓ, Erase 𝑚 and Erase ℓ are pointwise filters on the record set: each removes exactly the records whose dependency set contains its displaced slot, and neither modifies a retained record. Applying both, in either order, removes the union of the two affected record sets and retains the same archive; since the criterion replacements act on distinct coordinates of 𝜿 and all derived statistics are recomputed from retained records, the post-transition state does not depend on the order in which checkpoints on disjoint slots are processed. 

Remark 2 (Evaluator-dependent validation records, including the adversarial pool, are erased) . Some slot-local validation records are generated to expose a predecessor evaluator’s blind spots, the ad-versarial pool of Sec. 5.4 among them. Such a record’s outcome depends on the evaluator that scored it, so its dependency set contains that slot and Erase 𝑚 removes it when that evaluator is displaced. These records therefore influence node utility within the epoch that produced them, and never partic-ipate in evaluator replacement, which selects on the evaluator-independent anchor GT 𝑚 .

We next state the fixed-epoch validity result, an interface theorem: after conditioning on a fixed epoch vector and a criterion-consistent archive, the retained utility evidence and subsequent evaluations in that epoch refer to a fixed binary-outcome problem compatible with the HGM search. 

Proposition 3 (Epoch-local fixed-criterion validity) . Fix an epoch vector 𝒋 and suppose the archive is criterion-consistent under the active criterion vector 𝜿 𝒋 . Assume all evaluator-dependent roles satisfy Assumption 2 under their active frozen criteria, and all evaluator-independent roles satisfy the HGM evaluation conditions in Asm. 1. Then, within this fixed epoch, every eligible node–role–task tuple (𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) induces a time-homogeneous binary outcome law with fixed success probability 

𝑝 𝑟 ,𝑑, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) = Pr   

> 𝜿 𝒋

(𝑂 = 1 | 𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) .

33 Consequently, the epoch defines a fixed-criterion binary-outcome search problem with epoch-local utility 

𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) =

’ 

> (𝑟 ,𝑑 ) ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 )

𝑤 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

𝑝 𝑟 ,𝑑, 𝒋 (𝑎 ),

where C𝒋 (𝑎 ) is the eligible role–task cell set for node 𝑎 during the epoch and 𝑤 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

≥ 0 are fixed epoch-local target weights, normalized over C𝒋 (𝑎 ). Therefore, any HGM oracle-level theo-rem whose assumptions are a fixed binary-outcome criterion and access to the corresponding exact CMP oracle applies to the corresponding idealized epoch-local oracle problem under 𝑈 𝒋 .The empirical Thompson-sampling implementation uses retained binary records as a working estimator of this fixed-epoch problem; it is not itself an exact CMP oracle implementation. 

Proof. Fix an epoch vector 𝒋 ; the active criterion vector 𝜿 𝒋 is then fixed by definition. We show that every eligible node–role–task tuple (𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) has a fixed binary outcome distribution. If role 𝑟 is evaluator-independent, the HGM evaluation conditions in Assumption 1 imply that repeated evaluations of (𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) produce binary outcomes whose distribution, and hence whose expected value, does not change with evaluation time or previous search events, so there exists a fixed success prob-ability 

𝑝 𝑟 ,𝑑, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) = Pr (𝑂 = 1 | 𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ).

If role 𝑟 is evaluator-dependent, let 𝑋 denote the object submitted to the binary scorer. This object may be a freshly generated artifact, a revised artifact produced through a fixed feedback pipeline, or an item sampled from a frozen replay or adversarial-pool distribution. By Assumption 2, its distribution 

𝑃 𝒋  

> 𝑎,𝑟 ,𝑑

is fixed within the epoch. The binary scoring rule is also fixed: conditioned on 𝑋 = 𝑥 , the outcome is either deterministic or sampled from a fixed evaluator kernel 𝐾 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

(· | 𝑥 ). Hence the marginal success probability 𝑝 𝑟 ,𝑑, 𝒋 (𝑎 ) = Pr 𝜿 𝒋 (𝑂 = 1 | 𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) = ∫ 𝐾 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

(1 | 𝑥 ) 𝑑𝑃 𝒋  

> 𝑎,𝑟 ,𝑑

(𝑥 ) is fixed throughout the epoch, with the deterministic case 𝐾 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

(1 | 𝑥 ) ∈ { 0, 1} included. Thus every eligible tuple (𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) induces binary outcomes with a fixed epoch-local success proba-bility. Since the archive is criterion-consistent under 𝜿 𝒋 , every retained utility evidence record used by the search procedure was generated under criterion tags matching the active criteria on all slots that affected that record. By construction, subsequent records generated in the same epoch are tagged with the same active dependent criteria. The epoch-local utility 

𝑈 𝒋 (𝑎 ) =

’ 

> (𝑟 ,𝑑 ) ∈ C 𝒋 (𝑎 )

𝑤 𝒋  

> 𝑟 ,𝑑

𝑝 𝑟 ,𝑑, 𝒋 (𝑎 )

is therefore a fixed function of 𝑎 for the duration of the epoch. The HGM search algorithm requires a stream of binary outcomes per evaluated node, aggregated over nodes and clades under a fixed utility criterion. This requirement is satisfied within the epoch because every search evaluation produces 

𝑂 ∈ { 0, 1}, and the criterion-consistency invariant ensures that the records used for node-level and clade-level statistics are valid under the current epoch criterion. It follows that, conditional on the fixed epoch vector 𝒋 , the active criterion vector 𝜿 𝒋 , and the criterion-consistent archive, the current epoch defines an ordinary fixed-criterion binary-outcome search prob-lem of the HGM form. Hence HGM oracle-level theorems whose assumptions are satisfied by this idealized fixed-epoch problem apply to it under 𝑈 𝒋 . □

F.5 Supporting Results for Controlled Utility Evolution Ground-truth best-belief replacement. Recall the slot-𝑚 replacement rule and the notation E𝑚 (𝑐 ),

𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒

, 𝐹 gt  

> 𝑒

, and 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑒 ) = 𝐼 −1 

> 𝜖

(1 + 𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒

, 1 + 𝐹 gt  

> 𝑒

) of App. F.2.1, where the checkpoint rule selects an element of arg max 𝑒 ∈ E 𝑚 (𝑐 ) 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑒 ) with ties favoring the incumbent. 

Remark 3 (Anchor-only evaluator replacement) . The score 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑒 ) = 𝐼 −1 

> 𝜖

(1 + 𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒

, 1 + 𝐹 gt  

> 𝑒

) de-pends on the evaluator-independent anchor counts (𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒

, 𝐹 gt  

> 𝑒

) only (App. F.2.1); no slot-dependent utility record enters it. The selected next evaluator is therefore a function only of the incumbent, the 

34 challenger set, and these anchor counts, and because the incumbent lies in the candidate set with ties broken toward it, no transition occurs unless a challenger strictly maximizes the score. Consequently, on the common anchor evidence at a checkpoint, the promoted evaluator’s anchor best-belief is at least the incumbent’s: a replacement is never worse than retention at the moment it is made. 

Proposition 4 (Best-belief lower-bound trajectory) . Fix an epoch and a finite candidate set A.For each candidate 𝑎 ∈ A , let the HGM working posterior over its epoch-local utility be 

𝑄 𝑎 = Beta (1 + 𝑆 𝑎 , 1 + 𝐹 𝑎 ),

and define 

𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑎 ) = 𝐼 −1 

> 𝜖

(1 + 𝑆 𝑎 , 1 + 𝐹 𝑎 ).

If 𝑎 ★ ∈ arg max 𝑎 ∈ A 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑎 ), then, under the working posterior for 𝑎 ★,

Pr (𝑈 (𝑎 ★) ≥ 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑎 ★) | 𝑄 𝑎 ★

) = 1 − 𝜖 . 

More generally, for any sequence of 𝐿 reported selections 𝑎 ★ 

> 1

, . . . , 𝑎 ★𝐿 , if the corresponding work-ing posteriors are calibrated, then with probability at least 1 − 𝐿𝜖 , every selected candidate’s utility simultaneously exceeds its reported best-belief lower bound. Proof. By definition 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑎 ) is the 𝜖 -quantile of the Beta working posterior 𝑄 𝑎 (App. F.2.1), so 

Pr 𝑈 ∼𝑄 𝑎 (𝑈 ≥ 𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑎 )) = 1 − 𝜖 up to equality conventions for continuous distributions; applying this to 𝑎 ★ gives the single-selection claim. For the sequence claim, let 𝐸 ℓ be the event 𝑈 (𝑎 ★ℓ ) <𝐵𝐵 𝜖 (𝑎 ★ℓ ) under the calibrated working posterior at selection ℓ, so Pr (𝐸 ℓ ) = 𝜖 . By the union bound 

Pr (–𝐿 ℓ=1 𝐸 ℓ ) ≤ 𝐿𝜖 , so with probability at least 1 − 𝐿𝜖 no selected candidate falls below its reported lower bound. □

Remark 4. Proposition 4 is a calibration statement about the selected lower-bound trajectory. It justifies interpreting an increasing best-belief curve as increasing posterior evidence for better best-belief agents, conditional on the working-posterior assumptions already stated in Prop. 1. 

Piecewise fixed-criterion validity. Let 

0 = 𝜏 0 < 𝜏 1 < · · · < 𝜏 𝐾 ≤ 𝐵 

be the realized transition times. Transitions occur only at pre-specified checkpoints where some slot changes. Let F𝜏 𝑘 be the sigma-field generated by the archive, retained utility records, immutable audit logs, candidate evaluators, checkpoint statistics, and all random choices made up to 𝜏 𝑘 .

Proposition 5 (Piecewise fixed-criterion validity) . Assume that: (i) within each epoch, evaluator-dependent roles satisfy the stationary learned-evaluation condition in Asm. 2; (ii) evaluator-independent roles use fixed ground-truth criteria; (iii) slot transitions occur only at checkpoint boundaries; (iv) after each transition, the erasure removes records invalid under the new criterion; and (v) all derived search statistics are recomputed from retained records. Then, conditional on F𝜏 𝑘 and on the criterion vector selected at 𝜏 𝑘 , the interval [𝜏 𝑘 , 𝜏 𝑘 +1) is a fixed-criterion binary-outcome search problem. In particular, for every eligible node–role–task tuple (𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) during that interval, there is a fixed epoch-local success probability 

𝑝 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝑎,𝑟 ,𝑑

= Pr (𝑂 = 1 | 𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑, 𝜅 (𝑘 ) ),

and the corresponding role–task balanced utility is fixed for the duration of the epoch. 

Proof. Induct over epochs. Conditioned on F𝜏 𝑘 and the criterion vector selected at 𝜏 𝑘 , Prop. 2 gives a criterion-consistent archive at the start of [𝜏 𝑘 , 𝜏 𝑘 +1): the erasure operator removes every record invalid under the new criterion and derived statistics are recomputed from retained records, so no stale record enters the epoch’s statistics. No further transition occurs inside the interval, so Prop. 3 applies and every eligible (𝑎, 𝑟, 𝑑 ) has a fixed epoch-local mean 𝑝 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝑎,𝑟 ,𝑑

, with the role–task balanced utility a fixed weighted average of these means. The inherited tree is part of the conditioned archive at 𝜏 𝑘 and does not enter the within-epoch outcome process, completing the induction. □

35 Remark 5. The result is epoch-local: after conditioning on the checkpoint decision and applying selective erasure, each realized epoch is compatible with the fixed-criterion binary-outcome interface used by the HGM search (the multi-epoch scope is delimited in Rem. 6). 

Evaluator anchor lower bound at each checkpoint. The remark above is epoch-local because the 

task-agent criterion changes at every transition. The evaluator slot is the exception: its replacement test is scored only on the fixed anchor (Rem. 3), so over the whole run the slot is a single fixed-criterion selection sampled at checkpoints, and Prop. 4 applies to it. Fixing one slot, write 𝑈 gt (𝑒 )

for an evaluator’s anchor utility (its accuracy on the fixed anchor) and 𝐿 (𝑘 ) = 𝐵𝐵 gt  

> 𝜖

(𝑒 (𝑘 ) ) = 𝐼 −1 

> 𝜖

(1 +

𝑆 gt  

> 𝑒 (𝑘 )

, 1 + 𝐹 gt  

> 𝑒 (𝑘 )

) for the anchor best-belief of the evaluator promoted at its 𝑘 -th transition. 

Remark 6 (Evaluator anchor lower bound) . Fix a slot whose anchor criterion is fixed for the run, with promoted evaluators 𝑒 (0) , . . . , 𝑒 (𝐾 ) and anchor best-belief values 𝐿 (𝑘 ) = 𝐵𝐵 gt  

> 𝜖

(𝑒 (𝑘 ) ) measured at each promotion. If the anchor working posteriors are calibrated, then with probability at least 

1 − 𝐾𝜖 every promoted evaluator’s true anchor utility satisfies 𝑈 gt (𝑒 (𝑘 ) ) ≥ 𝐿 (𝑘 ) jointly; this is the sequence claim of Prop. 4 applied to the 𝐾 promoted evaluators on the fixed anchor ( 𝐿 = 𝐾 ). This is a per-checkpoint lower-bound statement together with the best-belief dominance of Rem. 3, not a guarantee that the realized anchor accuracy improves monotonically. 

Exponential checkpoint overhead. Let 𝐵 be the search-evaluation budget. Fix a checkpoint base 

𝜌 > 1 and minimum scale ℎ ≥ 1. Consider checkpoint opportunities 

C𝐵 (𝜌, ℎ ) = {⌊ ℎ𝜌 𝑞 ⌋ : 𝑞 = 0, 1, . . . , 𝑄 },

where 𝑄 is the largest integer such that ℎ𝜌 𝑄 ≤ 𝐵 .

Proposition 6 (Linear work under exponential checkpoints) . If a checkpoint at time 𝑐 may repro-cess at most all 𝑐 previous slot-dependent records, then the total number of reprocessed records over all checkpoints in C𝐵 (𝜌, ℎ ) is O( 𝐵 ), with constant at most 𝜌 /( 𝜌 − 1).

Proof. At checkpoint 𝑞 , the number of previous records that can be reprocessed is at most 

⌊ℎ𝜌 𝑞 ⌋ ≤ ℎ𝜌 𝑞 .

Summing over all checkpoint opportunities gives 

ℎ

> 𝑄

’

> 𝑞 =0

𝜌 𝑞 = ℎ(𝜌 𝑄 +1 − 1)

𝜌 − 1 ≤ 𝜌𝐵 𝜌 − 1 .

For fixed 𝜌 > 1, this is 

O( 𝐵 ).

The common base-two schedule is the special case 𝜌 = 2, for which the bound is at most 2𝐵 . □

Remark 7 (Dense uniform checkpointing) . Under uniform checkpoints every ℎ steps, checkpoint 

𝑞 can reprocess up to 𝑞ℎ previous records, so the total over ⌊𝐵 /ℎ⌋ checkpoints is Õ⌊ 𝐵 /ℎ⌋ 

> 𝑞 =1

𝑞ℎ =Θ(𝐵 2/ℎ): for fixed ℎ, quadratic in the budget rather than linear. 

Full replay is therefore compatible with linear exposure under the exponential schedule. Bounded recovery remains the default because it keeps utility transitions auditable and avoids spending unnec-essary evaluations on cached artifacts. 

## G Limitations 

We have not yet explored the complete design space or the trade-offs introduced by the RQGM , in either the number of experiments, spanning hyperparameter configurations, or their duration, due to computational constraints. Furthermore, our empirical scope remains constrained to specific do-mains: coding/ Polyglot , paper writing/review, and IMO grading/proof writing, each isolated with an HGM-H control. A unified, cross-domain, all-role tree spanning these areas remains untested. Additionally, all of our main experimental results relied exclusively on GPT-5.5 (low). 36 From a formal perspective, the theoretical guarantees provided for RQGM are inherently localized and constrained. The working posterior is mean-consistent only (Prop. 1), and our mathemati-cal guarantees operate strictly at an epoch-local level, bounding neither transition counts, cumula-tive regret from erased evidence, nor long-term convergence to a globally optimal agent–evaluator pair (App. F.4). Rather than proving absolute convergence, the best-belief curves represent calibrated lower-bound trajectories (Prop. 4), where each transition discards erased information, and the inher-ited tree topology may reflect expansion choices optimized for an outdated evaluator. Furthermore, Asm. 2 cannot strictly hold in real-world deployments due to systemic volatility beyond our control, including provider-side model updates, nondeterministic tools, hardware fluctuations, or unlogged prompt alterations. However, this volatility is a limitation that applies universally to all frameworks operating without full control over the entire software and hardware stack. Our evaluation metrics and loop boundaries introduce further distinct constraints. The reviewer panel inherently measures cross-reviewer acceptance behavior rather than objective, ground-truth scientific merit, and no human grading of the generated papers or proofs was performed. Because our empirical evidence is drawn entirely from intellectual-artifact domains, these dynamics may not generalize to environments with fundamentally different feedback structures. Additionally, evolving the evaluation layer introduces the specific risk of anchor weakness, where a weak, noisy, or biased anchor allows evaluators to drift across epochs, particularly since APReS de-cisions and IMO-GradingBench grades are themselves imperfect. Although this issue can only be truly avoided for fully verifiable domains such as mathematics, we intend to make our mechanism less reliant on good anchor datasets in future versions. While our search loop is robust, it is still hand-crafted, limiting the gains of recursive self-improvement to our selected benchmarks and the outputs generated by our task agents (which are molded by our benchmarks as well as the pretraining distribution of the foundation models). Extend-ing the evolvable surface to include the scheduler and replacement rules would necessitate signifi-cantly more robust guardrails than the ones analyzed in this work. 37