Title: Think, Then Verify: A Hypothesis-Verification Multi-Agent Framework for Long Video Understanding

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.04977v1

Published Time: Fri, 06 Mar 2026 01:44:44 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# Think, Then Verify: A Hypothesis–Verification Multi-Agent Framework for Long Video Understanding 

## Zheng Wang 1,2 Haoran Chen 1 Haoxuan Qin 1 Zhipeng Wei 3 Tianwen Qian 4 Cong Bai 1,2*

## {zhengwang, 211124120004, 302023315145, congbai }@zjut.edu.cn, zwei@icsi.berkeley.edu, twqian@cs.ecnu.edu.cn  

> 1

## College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University of Technology, Zhejiang, China  

> 2

## Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Visual Information Intelligent Processing, Zhejiang, China  

> 3

## UC Berkeley, CA, USA  

> 4

## College of Computer Science and Technology, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China 

## Abstract 

Long video understanding is challenging due to dense vi-sual redundancy, long-range temporal dependencies, and the tendency of chain-of-thought and retrieval-based agents to accumulate semantic drift and correlation-driven er-rors. We argue that long-video reasoning should begin not with reactive retrieval, but with deliberate task formula-tion: the model must first articulate what must be true in the video for each candidate answer to hold. This thinking-before-finding principle motivates VideoHV-Agent, a frame-work that reformulates video question answering as a struc-tured hypothesis–verification process. Based on video sum-maries, a Thinker rewrites answer candidates into testable hypotheses, a Judge derives a discriminative clue specifying what evidence must be checked, a Verifier grounds and tests the clue using localized, fine-grained video content, and an Answer agent integrates validated evidence to produce the final answer. Experiments on three long-video understand-ing benchmarks show that VideoHV-Agent achieves state-of-the-art accuracy while providing enhanced interpretabil-ity, improved logical soundness, and lower computational cost. We make our code publicly available at: https: //github.com/Haorane/VideoHV-Agent .

## 1. Introduction 

Large Language Models (LLMs) have advanced video un-derstanding substantially, showing strong multimodal com-prehension and emerging long-range reasoning capabili-ties. Yet long-form video question answering (VideoQA) remains difficult: models must process dense, redundant content and reason over extended temporal spans, which of-   

> *Corresponding Author: Cong Bai. Correlation -based Reasoning Hypothesis -based Verification
> If this is true, the
> video should show …
> I’m not sure yet,
> I need to find more
> Search and aggregate
> information from
> related clips
> Verify testable clue
> with detailed evidence
> to assess hypotheses
> Previous Agent VideoHV -Agent

Figure 1. From correlation-based search to hypothesis verification: prior agents search and aggregate related clips, while VideoHV-Agent verifies testable clues with focused visual evidence. 

ten leads to information overload and cascading reasoning errors [42]. Although chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting introduces stepwise reasoning [3], long reasoning chains are prone to semantic drift and error accumulation [4, 33]. Moreover, processing every frame is computationally pro-hibitive and leads to mixing of irrelevant content. To cope with the extended temporal scale, mainstream approaches either (i) downscale inputs via key-frame/clip selection [25, 40], or (ii) adopt multi-stage pipelines that first localize candidate moments and then reason on them [17, 23, 24]. More recently, agent-based frame-works [5, 18, 35] have emerged as a promising approach for long video understanding. These systems typically harness the observation, reasoning, and action capacities of LLMs. They use a pre-trained captioning model to obtain offline textual descriptions, then let agents plan multi-step informa-tion retrieval: iteratively search and aggregate video clips 1

> arXiv:2603.04977v1 [cs.CV] 5 Mar 2026

that appear semantically related to the question. However, existing agent-based frameworks remain fun-damentally correlation-driven . On the one hand, most planners decompose the video’s complexity, such as video length, redundancy, and fine-grained information. While they overlook the question’s complexity, e.g., composi-tional constraints over multiple entities, temporal order-ing, and causal preconditions, each central to long-form VideoQA. As a result, long-range reasoning remains weak and early retrieval errors tend to propagate across subse-quent steps [19, 34]. On the other hand, retrieval is treated as a reactive process. Agents repeatedly search for clips that correlate with the current plan, then re-plan based on whatever is found, leading to expensive trial-and-error cy-cles without explicitly checking whether the evidence actu-ally supports or refutes a candidate answer. Thus, the core difficulty of long-form VideoQA is not merely locating relevant clips but determining what should be looked for in the first place . We argue that reasoning should begin with deliberate task formulation: before gath-ering evidence, the system must articulate what must be true in the video for each possible answer to hold. This “thinking before finding” principle reframes long-video reasoning as a structured inquiry rather than a purely correlation-driven search, as shown in Fig. 1. To this end, we propose VideoHV-Agent , a multi-agent framework that recasts long-video understanding as a hy-pothesis–verification process, thus achieving “thinking then verify” principle. After obtaining textual descriptions of sampled frames, we first build a query-conditioned video summary to quickly estimate which answers are plausible under coarse evidence. Then we can reason about which answers could be correct and why. Because the summary is inherently coarse, this preliminary reasoning is uncer-tain and must be turned into concrete information needs. VideoHV-Agent addresses this via a two-stage reasoning pipeline. In Stage 1, a Thinker agent rewrites each an-swer option into an explicit, testable hypothesis that spec-ifies key entities, actions, and temporal–causal constraints, while a Judge agent generates a concise clue that captures the minimal visual observation needed to distinguish among hypotheses. In Stage 2, a Verifier agent grounds this clue in the video, localizes a small set of relevant clips, and in-vokes fine-grained captioning to test whether the observed evidence supports, partially supports, or refutes the clue. Fi-nally, an Answer agent integrates the verified evidence with the summarized context to answer along with a transpar-ent reasoning chain. By shifting from correlation-based re-trieval to hypothesis–verification, VideoHV-Agent enables evidence-based, logically consistent, and interpretable rea-soning for long-form VideoQA. To summarize, our main contributions are: • We introduce a hypothesis–verification paradigm for long-form VideoQA, which reasons by first formulat-ing testable hypotheses and then validating them against video evidence. • We implement this paradigm as a multi-agent framework, 

VideoHV-Agent , where a Thinker agent that generates hypotheses and a Judge agent that distills a discriminative clue, a Verifier that performs clue-guided evidence gath-ering and verification with detailed video analysis, and an Answer agent that integrates validated evidence into a final decision. • Extensive experiments on three long-video understanding benchmarks demonstrate that VideoHV-Agent achieves state-of-the-art performance with improved interpretabil-ity, logical accuracy, and computational efficiency. 

## 2. Related Work 

2.1. Chain-of-Thought Reasoning 

Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting [36] has been widely adopted to guide multi-step reasoning in long video under-standing. It enables LLMs to decompose complex ques-tions into intermediate steps, mirroring human problem-solving. ViQAgent [24] combines CoT reasoning with visual grounding, using tracked objects to align steps with video content. TraveLER [27] employs a pipeline of agents to execute an “ask-locate-evaluate-replan” loop, where each sub-question is derived and answered sequen-tially. VideoINSTA [18] improves spatial-temporal rea-soning ability by introducing event-based and context-based information with multi-round self-reflective rea-soning mechanisms, improving confident self-evaluation. AoTD [28] incorporates automatically generated Chain-of-Thoughts (CoTs) into the instruction-tuning process, show-ing the importance of constructing well-designed CoTs for instruction-tuning. Despite these advances, CoT-based sys-tems often remain fragile over long video contexts due to semantic drift, where early reasoning errors accumulate. Moreover, most lack explicit mechanisms to validate in-termediate reasoning outcomes, making them vulnerable to hallucinations or propagation of incorrect assumptions. 

2.2. Efficient Contextualization for Long Video 

To mitigate the processing burden of long videos, several methods abstract or condense the video context before rea-soning. LVNet [25] and VideoTree [35] reduce the in-put size through keyword-based frame selection and hier-archical clustering, respectively. VideoMindPlace [10] fur-ther organizes activity zones via layout mapping and hand-object interaction to improve spatial alignment. LLoVi [40] employs short-term visual captioners to summarize clips, which are later aggregated by LLMs for long-form under-standing for better efficiency. VideoAgent [5] constructs a memory bank of salient objects and events, enabling more 2targeted reasoning. Another direction for efficient long con-text processing is to incorporate retrieval augmented gener-ation. Video-RAG [21] delivers auxiliary retrieval requests for OCR, ASR, and object information from the video, and the extracted auxiliary texts are combined with the query and the video to generate the response. Grounding-based approaches, instead, try to narrow down the searching win-dow during reasoning. TraveLER [27] employs ground-ing during sub-question answering by retrieving moments based on keyframe relevance. MoReVQA [23] proposes a multi-stage planning with grounding and reasoning abili-ties. Though these strategies enhance efficiency and visual alignment, they often rely on static pipelines and do not re-visit raw evidence dynamically. Importantly, they lack log-ical validation across reasoning stages, limiting their relia-bility in multi-step inference settings. 

2.3. Specialized Agent Framework 

With the emergence of LVLMs, agent-based systems have become a prominent paradigm to improve modularity. For instance, VideoAgent [31] builds an agent pipeline with the ability to predict answers, self-reflect, and find miss-ing information. VideoAgent [5] builds structured mem-ory modules to store spatiotemporal information and sup-port interactive planning across long sequences. MASR [2] introduces a hierarchical, coarse-to-fine attention focusing mechanism in an agent-based framework. OmAgent [42] formulates LVU as a retrieval and generation process, and adopts a divide-and-conquer approach for task planning and execution. ViQAgent [24] combines the CoT framework with grounded reasoning powered by a specialized object grounding model. VideoAgent2 [44] performs uncertainty-guided information retrieval, the retrieval plan is adjusted each round for collecting extra information with the help of specialized tool models. These agent-based designs demon-strate the importance of separating planning, summariza-tion, and action in long-form visual processing, laying the groundwork for modular reasoning across video timelines. 

2.4. Multi-Agent Collaboration Framework 

A more recent trend involves collaborative multi-agent frameworks for video understanding. TraveLER [27] ex-emplifies this by distributing across dedicated LLM agents. Similarly, VideoMultiAgents [13] introduces modality-specific agents, each focusing on a particular input type such as vision or language. VideoMind [20] adapts a sin-gle LVLM to four role-specific agents with LoRA fine-tuning [9]. While these architectures begin to emulate col-lective intelligence, most implement static or loosely cou-pled pipelines without explicit validation across agents or dynamic feedback loops. They tend to partition tasks by modality or function, but fall short of using the reasoning ability to enable verifiable cooperation. 

## 3. Method 

3.1. Problem setup 

Given a long video V = {ft}Lt=1 and a question Q with multiple-choice options O = {oi}, our goal is to return an answer A supported by explicit, detailed video evidence E.

3.2. Overall Framework 

We present VideoHV-Agent , a framework that consists of three stages as shown in Fig. 2: context summarization ,

two-step reasoning , and evidence integration . The two-step reasoning stage reformulates long video question an-swering as a hypothesis–verification process, which can be iterated through a self-refinement loop. The pseudo code is presented in Alg. 1. Specifically, VideoHV-Agent com-prises mainly four cooperative agents. In the hypothesis generation step, a Thinker agent observes the summarized video description and proposes testable hypotheses H for the candidate answers, while a Judger agent evaluates their quality and derives a concise clue κ that specifies what needs to be verified. In the Verification step, a Verifier 

agent grounds this clue in the video, collecting visual ev-idence E to test it; once the clue is verified (represented by the verification state S), an Answer agent combines the summary and the gathered evidence to produce the final an-swer A. This framework enables interpretable, evidence-based reasoning over long video content. 

3.2.1. Context Summarization 

To address redundancy and complex temporal structure in long videos, we follow prior work [31, 44] by first con-verting each frame into textual descriptions Pv via cap-tioning, and then deriving a compact, query-conditioned summary Ps from the frame-level captions. Although the summarization step depends on the question and therefore cannot be performed fully offline, it is computationally lightweight compared to frame-level captioning, which re-quires repeated visual encoding. In previous methods, frame captions and summaries are simply concatenated into a single long context [31], and the model consumes it for both local and global reasoning, incurring a time cost linear in the number of frames. In contrast, we decouple their roles: frame-level captions are used only for clip grounding, while the concise summary is used for global reasoning in other stages. This design pre-serves detailed information when necessary while keeping the overall context compact and efficient to process. 

3.2.2. Two-step Reasoning 

Given the summary, VideoHV-Agent can quickly narrow down plausible answers, but the summary alone is not suf-ficient to reliably resolve the question. In addition, directly reasoning over all frame-level captions is also impractical. It is time-consuming, and captions mainly describe salient 3(b) Two -step Reasoning      

> Clu e
> Qu est ion
> Clu e
> Fin al Answe r
> Can diAnswer 1
> Can diAnswer m
> … Hypothesis 1
> Hypothesis m
> …
> Hypothesis
> Ge neration
> Frame Capt ion
> Summary
> Long
> Vid eo Vid eo
> Clip
> Cap tion +Clu e Timestamp
> Vid eo + T imestamp Clip Details
> Action: Clip Grounding
> Action: Detailed Description
> Can diAnswer 1
> Can diAnswer m
> …
> Qu est ion
> Clu e
> Verificat ion
> Verifier
> Age nt
> Thinke r
> Age nt
> Judger
> Age nt
> Answer
> Age nt

(a) Summary 

Step 1: Hypothesis  Step 2: Verification 

(c) Answer 

> Summary
> Evidence
> Clip Det ails
> Evidence
> Summary

Figure 2. Overview of the proposed VideoHV-Agent framework. The framework first (a) summarizes the long video captions, then performs (b) two-step reasoning where a Thinker and a Judge agent rewrite options into hypotheses and a discriminative clue, and a Verifier agent grounds this clue to collect visual evidence, finally an Answer agent integrates the evidence to (c) answer the question. 

content while often missing fine-grained relations or events needed for precise answering. Therefore, VideoHV-Agent adopts a two-step hypothesis–verification process. First, it reasons about what information might be missing from the summary and formulates hypotheses that explicitly imagine the potentially unseen context. Then, it performs a veri-fication step that checks whether detailed visual evidence satisfies these hypotheses, enabling accurate and efficient long-video reasoning. Here we outline the two-step reason-ing pipeline, with full methodological details provided in Sec. 3.3. 

Hypothesis Generation . Given the summarized video con-text, the Thinker agent rewrites each answer candidate oi

into a testable hypothesis hi that specifies what must be true in the video for oi to hold. Directly verifying all hypotheses one by one would ignore the logical relations among them. To address this, we introduce a Judge agent that evaluates the set of hypotheses and induces a discriminative clue κ,which condenses the key differences that need to be checked in order to distinguish among them. 

Hypothesis Verification . Guided by clue κ, the Veri-fier grounds a minimal temporal context needed to eval-uate it, to gather evidence to evaluate κ, invokes fine-grained tools (e.g., detailed captioning) to gather ev-idence, and outputs a structured status status (κ) ∈{VERIFIED , PARTIAL , NOT VERIFIED } together with a concise rationale. 

3.2.3. Self-Refinement Loop 

To improve robustness, VideoHV-Agent incorporates a self-refinement mechanism that mirrors human hypothesis revi-sion. When the verification status is inconclusive, we re-generate refined hypotheses and updated clues for an extra round of the reasoning stage. Two regeneration prompts are used: (i) specificity enhancement, which makes hypothe-ses more concrete and testable when verification fails, and (ii) discriminability enhancement, which increases semantic contrast when hypotheses overlap. This ensures that each reasoning loop progressively sharpens both the clarity of hypotheses and the precision of verification, yielding stable and logically grounded answers. 

3.2.4. Evidence Integration 

In the final stage, all verification results are integrated to in-fer the most plausible answer. With the summarized context and validated evidence, the video information is sufficient to resolve the question. The Answer agent re-evaluates each candidate option, checks for conflicts with the evidence, and constructs a reasoning chain outlining what was tested, ob-served, and supported or refuted. The final prediction is produced through explicit, evidence-grounded reasoning. 

3.3. Details of Two-step Reasoning 

3.3.1. Step 1: Hypothesis Hypothesis Generation . We cast answer formation as hy-pothesis drafting: for each candidate option oi, the Thinker 4Agent produces a testable hypothesis hi that, if observed in the video, would make oi correct. The hypothesis hi spec-ifies what must be true in the video for oi to hold, explic-itly naming the salient entities/objects, actions/events, and temporal/causal constraints. Before generating hypotheses, the Thinker agent filters out ill-posed or clearly incorrect options using only the summarized context, thereby reduc-ing irrelevant noise for the subsequent verification step and avoiding unnecessary reasoning cost. Formally, we map the option set O = {oi} to a hypothesis set H = {hi} with a one-to-one correspondence intended for later verification. 

Clue Generation . To enhance discriminability, the Judge agent further produces a concise clue κ for the hypothesis set H. The clue summarizes the minimal observation that can distinguish hi from competing hypotheses, such as a specific object interaction, an event order, or a visual out-come that would hold only if hi were true. This clue serves as focused guidance for the Verifier agent in the Verifica-tion step, defining what needs to be checked and what kind of evidence would support or refute the hypothesis. 

3.3.2. Step 2: Verification Temporal Localization . Given the clue κ, the Verifier uses frame-level captions to localize the most probable temporal window where the clue appears, focusing on finding clip details on decisive evidence rather than the entire video. 

Detailed Captioning . After selecting the timestamp range, the Verifier revisits the raw frames within the window and invokes fine-grained captioning to extract detailed evidence for verification, ensuring that the system’s capabilities are not constrained by the initial visual to text translation. Each call processes at most five frames. 

Clue Verification . The clue verification status for κ is one of status (κ) ∈ { VERIFIED , PARTIAL , NOT VERIFIED },accompanied by a concise rationale (timestamps, entities, relations). VERIFIED means the clue can be verified by the evidence, and an answer can be raised upon this clue together with the summarized context. The Verifier agent then synthesizes all collected evidence into a reasoning trace that documents the logical inference, which is further used by the Answer agent. PARTIAL indicates that part of the clue is verified by the observed, but requires addi-tional evidence. Since a single round of evidence collec-tion may be insufficient or error-prone, the Verifier can trig-ger additional rounds when the current assessment is incon-clusive, explicitly specifying what further observations and frame ranges are needed. Then, VideoHV-Agent performs a small verification-only self-refinement loop to retrieve detailed descriptions from new timestamps and integrates them into the reasoning context. The NOT VERIFIED sta-tus indicates that the agent finds the clue sub-optimal and should be regenerated along with the hypothesis. When the NOT VERIFIED status is presented, the large hypothesis-verification self-refinement loop is activated. 

Algorithm 1 VideoHV-Agent Require: video V ; question Q; answer options O; frame-level caption Pv ; LLM Fllm ; video summarizer Fvs ;

Ensure: hypothesis H; clue κ; evidence E; verification status S; final answer A; 

> 1:

// Context Summarization  

> 2:

Pf ← Fvc (V ) 

> 3:

Ps ← Fvs (Pf , Q ) 

> 4:

// Two-Stage Reasoning  

> 5:

for t=1 to T do  

> 6:

Step 1: Hypothesis Generation  

> 7:

H ← Fllm (Q, O, Ps, prompt Hypothesis ) 

> 8:

κ ← Fllm (H, Ps, prompt Judge ) 

> 9:

Step 2: Hypothesis Verification  

> 10:

E ← Fllm (κ, Pf , prompt Evidence ) 

> 11:

S ← Fllm (κ, E, prompt Verify ) 

> 12:

if S == NOT VERIFIED then  

> 13:

continue  

> 14:

else  

> 15:

break  

> 16:

end if  

> 17:

end for  

> 18:

// Evidence Integration  

> 19:

A ← Fllm (Q, O, Ps, κ, E, prompt Answer ) 

> 20:

return A

## 4. Experiment 

4.1. Datasets and Metrics 

We compare VideoHV-Agent against strong zero-shot and supervised baselines under the accuracy metric, evaluat-ing performance on three multi-choice video question an-swering benchmarks: (i) EgoSchema [22] is a large-scale test-only benchmark built on Ego4D, designed to evaluate deep reasoning over 3-minute egocentric videos. It contains 5,000 multiple-choice questions over 250+ hours of real-world footage, with 500 publicly labeled questions used for validation. (ii) NextQA [37] emphasizes causal and tempo-ral reasoning in natural daily-life videos. It includes 5,440 videos and 48,000 questions, with 43s average length. We evaluate on the 570-video, 5,000-question validation split. (iii) IntentQA [15] focuses on understanding character in-tent in narrative videos. It contains 4,303 videos and 16,000 QA pairs, with 567 videos and 2,134 questions in the test set. Results on longer videos, VideoMME-L [6], are in-cluded in the supplementary materials. 

4.2. Implementation Details 

We extract all video frames at 1 fps for our experiments. Following the setup in [31, 44], we adopt LaViLa [43], a clip-based captioning model, as the frame-level captioner for EgoSchema, and for NextQA and IntentQA, we use Co-5Table 1. Zero-Shot Performance on EgoSchema subset compared to the state of the art. 

Method Accuracy (%) 

TS-LLAVA [26] 57.8 HCQA [41] 58.8 VideoAgent [31] 60.2 VideoTree [35] 66.2 LVNet [25] 68.2 Tarsier [29] 68.6 LifelongMemory [32] 72.0 VideoMultiAgents [13] 75.4 VideoAgent2 [44] 80.6 

VideoHV-Agent 81.0 

> Table 2. Results on NextQA dataset compared to the state of the art.

Method val set ATP-hard subset 

Supervised 

ViLA [30] 74.4 -VideoChat2 [16] 79.5 68.2 LLaVA-OV [14] 80.2 -LinVT-Qwen2-VL [7] 85.5 69.1 

Zero-shot 

SeViLA [39] 63.6 50.8 VideoAgent [31] 71.3 58.4 TS-LLAVA [26] 73.6 -LLoVi [40] 73.8 -VideoMultiAgents [13] 79.6 -VideoAgent2 [44] 80.5 68.2 

VideoHV-Agent 80.7 71.2 

gAgent [8] to generate frame-level captions. GPT-4o [11] is used as the LLM backbone for all four agents. Alter-native backbone choices are detailed in the supplementary materials. For detailed captioning in the verification stage, we also employ GPT-4o to produce fine-grained textual de-scriptions. 

4.3. Main Result 

As shown in Table 1, 2 and 3, VideoHV-Agent achieved SOTA among zero-shot methods on all datasets. It shows that video agents perform well on problems such as tem-poral order understanding, common sense understanding, and character behavior intention. For the NextQA ATP-hard subset, our accuracy improved significantly. VideoHV-Agent is not only effective at solving simple problems, but also performs even better on difficult ones. This demon- 

> Table 3. Zero-Shot performance on IntentQA compared to the state of the art.

Method Accuracy (%) 

SeViLA [39] 60.9 IG-VLM [12] 65.3 VideoTree [35] 66.9 LLoVi [40] 67.1 TS-LLAVA [26] 67.9 ENTER [1] 71.5 LVNet [25] 71.7 VideoINSTA [18] 72.8 VideoAgent2 [44] 73.9 

VideoHV-Agent 75.6 

> Table 4. Ablation of framework components.

Method Accuracy(%) 

w/o hypothesis 76.0 w/o clue 78.6 w/o verification status 74.0 

VideoHV-Agent 81.0 

strates that VideoHV-Agent has the ability to solve com-plex problems. This is also consistent with our hypothe-sis verification method, which focuses more on causal rea-soning. VideoHV-Agent shows outstanding performance on both splits, highlighting the robustness of the method. 

4.4. Ablation Study 

Ablation of framework components. As reported in Ta-ble 4, we conduct comprehensive ablation studies to vali-date the effectiveness of each component in the proposed framework: (i) Without hypothesis generation. Removing the hypoth-esis generation module and deriving clues directly from raw option differences reduces accuracy by 5%. This indicates that explicit hypotheses, which capture key events, enti-ties, and temporal–causal relations, provide crucial struc-ture for downstream reasoning; without them, information loss leads to degraded performance. (ii) Without clue generation. Disabling clue generation yields 78.6% accuracy. Clues translate high-level hypothe-ses into concrete, verifiable visual evidence (e.g., behaviors, locations, temporal order, object interactions). Removing them weakens verification focus and reduces the effective-ness of targeted evidence collection. (iii) Without verification status. In particular, removing the explicit verification status leads to a 7% performance drop, demonstrating that verification is functionally nec-6Figure 3. Ablations of different maximum number of loops. 

> Figure 4. Proportion of samples with different numbers of loops.

essary rather than a cosmetic explanation. This mecha-nism enables adaptive self-refinement, collects additional evidence when needed, and regenerates poor hypotheses or clues. Without it, refinement is disabled and performance drops substantially. (iv) Full model. The complete framework with Thinker, Judger, Verifier, and Answer agents achieves the highest ac-curacy of 81.0%. 

Ablation of the number of loops. We investigate the effect of different maximum loop numbers on VideoHV-Agent. Hypothesis-verification refers to the number of self-refinement loop. Verification-only indicates the number of times the Verifier looks for additional information when ver-ifying a hypothesis. As shown in Figure 3, performance on the EgoSchema subset increases with more loops, reaches a peak, and then stabilizes. In Figure 4, we show the ac-tual number of loops performed by VideoHV-Agent. The largest proportion of loops is 1. These results indicate that VideoHV-Agent typically identifies key information effi-ciently, while additional loops can further refine retrieval when necessary. Beyond a certain point, however, extra it-erations provide marginal gains. 

> Table 5. Averaged time cost comparison with other agent-based methods.

Method Time Cost(s) Accuracy(%) 

VideoAgent [31] 129.46 60.2 VideoTree [35] 160.21 66.2 VideoMultiAgents [13] 134.90 75.4 

VideoHV-Agent 123.66 81.0 

4.5. Operational Efficiency 

Most agent-based VideoQA systems operate in an “ex-plore–reason–explore again” fashion. The LLM agent re-peatedly plans, retrieves new clips, updates its belief state, and then issues further queries. Each cycle triggers addi-tional visual encoding, captioning, and long context reason-ing, and the number of such cycles typically grows with video length. As a result, inference cost scales almost lin-early with both the number of frames and the depth of the interaction loop, making these methods slow and sensitive to redundant content in long videos. As shown in Table 5, VideoHV-Agent not only achieves higher accuracy than existing methods, but also offers sub-stantially lower per-question latency, yielding a dual gain in performance and efficiency. This improvement comes from its design: frame captions are first condensed into a global summary, and the hypothesis-verification stages are guided by a discriminative clue that narrows the search to a min-imal temporal window. The Verifier then analyzes only a small set of targeted frames with fine-grained captioning, rather than repeatedly scanning the entire video. By pre-serving decision relevant information while avoiding redun-dant frame-by-frame or multi-round inference, VideoHV-Agent maintains a relatively low overall reasoning time. 

4.6. Performance Analysis by Question Type 

To demonstrate the effectiveness of our hypothesis-verification method, we analyze its accuracy across differ-ent question types on the NextQA dataset: (i) Causal, which examines cause–effect relationships; (ii) Temporal, which focuses on event order and interactions over time; and (iii) Descriptive, which emphasizes key scenes, objects, and ac-tions. As shown in Fig. 6, we compare our approach with VideoAgent and VideoMultiAgents. Our method achieves the best performance across all three categories within the agent-based video understanding framework, demon-strating the general effectiveness of the “hypothesis-and-verification” paradigm for commonsense, causal, and tem-poral reasoning. 7… …

0:05  0:10  0:25  0:30  0:35  0:40  2:10  2:15  2:20 

Final  Answer: B 

The verification results confirm that she  uses a sewing machine to join the cloth , as evidenced by the  illuminated machine, the fabric being guided under the needle, and manual 

adjustments for alignment.  The evidence from the video and captions clearly shows that she uses a sewing machine to join the two pieces of cloth, ensuri ng  alignment by manually 

adjusting the fabric during the sewing process. 

Question:  What is the technique she applies to join the two pieces of cloth, and how does she ensure they are properly aligned througho  ut  the process? 

Options: A.  She u ses a pair of scissors to join the two pieces of cloth.  B.  She u ses a sewing machine to join the two pieces of cloth.  C.  She u ses a needle and thread to join the two 

pieces of cloth.  D.  She u ses a glue gun to join the two pieces of cloth.  E.  She u ses a stapler to join the two pieces of cloth. 

Hypothesis: For B:  She uses a sewing machine to join two pieces of cloth, ensuring proper alignment by  adjusting the fabric on the sewing machine with hands . For C:  She uses a 

needle and thread to join two pieces of cloth, ensuring proper alignment  by holding and adjusting the cloth with hands. 

Clue:  Check whether she uses a sewing machine or a needle and thread to join the cloth. 

Frame  Range: 0:03 -0:08 

Evidence found from 0:03 -0:08 :  She is seated at a sewing station with a sewing machine visible in the background. She is holding and adjusting lace fabric w  ith  their hands, but 

there is no explicit action of sewing observed in these frames. The sewing machine is present but not actively in use. 

Verification Result:  NOT_VERIFIED. The clue cannot be confirmed based on the provided frames. Additional evidence is needed to observe the sewing  tec hnique being employed. 

Additional Evidence Needed:  Frames showing the  individual actively sewing  (e.g., using the sewing machine or handling a needle and thread)  would be helpful for verification .

Frames such as  31 -35 or 41 -45 might provide relevant insights .

Hypothesis: For B:  She uses a sewing machine to join the two pieces of cloth, ensuring proper alignment by adjusting the fabric on the sewing ma  chi ne with hands  during the sewing 

process.  For C:  The individual uses a needle and thread to join the two pieces of cloth, ensuring proper alignment by holding and adjusting t  he  cloth with hands  while sewing. 

Clue:  Check whether she uses scissors or a sewing machine to join the cloth during sewing. 

Frame  Range: 0:31 -0:35 

Evidence found from 0:31 -0:35 :  She is seated at a sewing station with a sewing machine visible in the background. She is holding and adjusting lace fabric w  ith  their hands, but 

there is no explicit action of sewing observed in these frames. The sewing machine is present but not actively in use. 

Verification Result:  VERIFIED.  The clue is supported by the evidence,  as the sewing machine is clearly the tool used to join the fabric, and  alignment is maintained through manual 

adjustments during the sewing process. 

Reasoning Trace:  > She is seen holding and adjusting lace fabric at a sewing station. >  The sewing machine is visible but not actively used  in these frames.  There is no evidence of a 

needle and thread being used either.  > The clue cannot be verified based on these frames alone , as no sewing action is observed .

Verification Result:  NOT_VERIFIED. The clue cannot be confirmed based on the provided frames. Additional evidence is needed to observe the sewing  tec hnique being employed. 

Additional Evidence Needed:  Frames showing the  individual actively sewing  (e.g., using the sewing machine or handling a needle and thread)  would be helpful for verification . Frames 

such as  31 -35 or 41 -45 might provide relevant insights .

Reasoning Trace:  > She is  actively using a sewing machine to attach lace trim to fabric,  as evidenced  by the illuminated machine and the fabric being guided under the 

needle.  > The sewing machine is explicitly mentioned and observed as the tool being used for joining the fabric.  No evidence of scissors or needle is found in these frames. 

> The sewing machine is the primary technique used for joining the cloth, and proper alignment is ensured by manually guiding  th e fabric under the needle. 

Verification Result:  VERIFIED.  The clue is supported by the evidence,  as the sewing machine is clearly the tool used to join the fabric, and  alignment is maintained 

through manual adjustments during the sewing process. Figure 5. Qualitative study of event understanding in long videos. VideoHV-Agent uses hypothesis–verification to locate decisive evidence, highlighting its ability to avoid search purposefully and ground conclusions in explicit visual proof. 

Figure 6. Comparison for different types of NextQA questions. 

4.7. Qualitative Study 

In Fig. 5, we qualitatively demonstrate the effectiveness of VideoHV-Agent. Given multiple possible cloth joint ways, the Thinker formulates testable hypotheses and specifies the visual clue needed to distinguish them. When inspecting early frames (3–8), the Verifier finds insufficient evidence and marks the clue as unverified rather than guessing. In a second round, it examines later frames (31–35), detects clear sewing actions (e.g., illuminated machine, fabric un-der the presser foot, manual alignment), and reaches a ver-ified judgment consistent with the ground truth. This case demonstrates targeted evidence retrieval, robust uncertainty handling, and transparent reasoning that directly ties visual observations to logical decisions. 

## 5. Conclusion 

We propose VideoHV-Agent, a multi-agent framework for long-form VideoQA built on a hypothesis–verification paradigm. Unlike prior single-agent or retrieval-based methods, it decomposes reasoning into explicit, verifi-able steps executed by specialized agents. By testing structured hypotheses instead of aggregating noisy evi-dence, VideoHV-Agent filters spurious information, focuses on decision-relevant observations, and enables transparent agent coordination. This results in more robust, inter-pretable, and logically consistent video understanding. Ex-periments on EgoSchema, NextQA, and IntentQA show that VideoHV-Agent achieves state-of-the-art accuracy with strong efficiency and interpretability. 

## 6. Acknowledgements 

This work is partially supported by Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 62302453), Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (No. LMS25F020003), and Shanghai Municipal Science and Technology Major Project 2025SHZDZX025G16. 8References 

[1] Hammad Ayyubi, Junzhang Liu, Ali Asgarov, Zaber Ibn Ab-dul Hakim, Najibul Haque Sarker, Zhecan Wang, Chia-Wei Tang, Hani Alomari, Md Atabuzzaman, Xudong Lin, et al. Enter: Event based interpretable reasoning for videoqa. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.14194 , 2025. 6 [2] Shiwen Cao, Zhaoxing Zhang, Junming Jiao, Juyi Qiao, Guowen Song, Rong Shen, and Xiangbing Meng. Masr: Self-reflective reasoning through multimodal hierarchical at-tention focusing for agent-based video understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.17213 , 2025. 3 [3] Zhenfang Chen, Qinhong Zhou, Yikang Shen, Yining Hong, Zhiqing Sun, Dan Gutfreund, and Chuang Gan. Visual chain-of-thought prompting for knowledge-based visual reasoning. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence , pages 1254–1262, 2024. 1 [4] Xiaoxue Cheng, Junyi Li, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen. Chainlm: Empowering large language models with improved chain-of-thought prompting. In Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024) , pages 2969–2983, 2024. 1 [5] Yue Fan, Xiaojian Ma, Rujie Wu, Yuntao Du, Jiaqi Li, Zhi Gao, and Qing Li. Videoagent: A memory-augmented mul-timodal agent for video understanding. In European Confer-ence on Computer Vision , pages 75–92. Springer, 2024. 1, 2, 3[6] Chaoyou Fu, Yuhan Dai, Yongdong Luo, Lei Li, Shuhuai Ren, Renrui Zhang, Zihan Wang, Chenyu Zhou, Yunhang Shen, Mengdan Zhang, et al. Video-mme: The first-ever comprehensive evaluation benchmark of multi-modal llms in video analysis. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 24108– 24118, 2025. 5, 1 [7] Lishuai Gao, Yujie Zhong, Yingsen Zeng, Haoxian Tan, Dengjie Li, and Zheng Zhao. Linvt: Empower your image-level large language model to understand videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.05185 , 2024. 6 [8] Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Jiazheng Xu, Wenmeng Yu, Junhui Ji, Yan Wang, Zihan Wang, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, et al. Cogagent: A visual language model for gui agents. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 14281– 14290, 2024. 6 [9] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu Chen, et al. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. ICLR ,1(2):3, 2022. 3 [10] Zeyi Huang, Yuyang Ji, Xiaofang Wang, Nikhil Mehta, Tong Xiao, Donghyun Lee, Sigmund Vanvalkenburgh, Shengxin Zha, Bolin Lai, Licheng Yu, et al. Building a mind palace: Structuring environment-grounded semantic graphs for ef-fective long video analysis with llms. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 24169–24179, 2025. 2 [11] Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perel-man, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Weli-hinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. Gpt-4o system card. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276 , 2024. 6 [12] Wonkyun Kim, Changin Choi, Wonseok Lee, and Wonjong Rhee. An image grid can be worth a video: Zero-shot video question answering using a vlm. IEEE Access , 2024. 6 [13] Noriyuki Kugo, Xiang Li, Zixin Li, Ashish Gupta, Arpan-deep Khatua, Nidhish Jain, Chaitanya Patel, Yuta Kyuragi, Yasunori Ishii, Masamoto Tanabiki, et al. Videomultia-gents: A multi-agent framework for video question answer-ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.20091 , 2025. 3, 6, 7 [14] Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Dong Guo, Renrui Zhang, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Peiyuan Zhang, Yanwei Li, Zi-wei Liu, et al. Llava-onevision: Easy visual task transfer. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.03326 , 2024. 6 [15] Jiapeng Li, Ping Wei, Wenjuan Han, and Lifeng Fan. Inten-tqa: Context-aware video intent reasoning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision ,pages 11963–11974, 2023. 5 [16] Kunchang Li, Yali Wang, Yinan He, Yizhuo Li, Yi Wang, Yi Liu, Zun Wang, Jilan Xu, Guo Chen, Ping Luo, et al. Mvbench: A comprehensive multi-modal video understand-ing benchmark. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 22195– 22206, 2024. 6 [17] Kailing Li, Qi’ao Xu, Tianwen Qian, Yuqian Fu, Yang Jiao, and Xiaoling Wang. Clivis: Unleashing cognitive map through linguistic-visual synergy for embodied visual rea-soning, 2025. 1 [18] Ruotong Liao, Max Erler, Huiyu Wang, Guangyao Zhai, Gengyuan Zhang, Yunpu Ma, and Volker Tresp. Videoinsta: Zero-shot long video understanding via informative spatial-temporal reasoning with llms. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024 , pages 6577– 6602, 2024. 1, 2, 6 [19] Zengrong Lin, Zheng Wang, Tianwen Qian, Pan Mu, Sixian Chan, and Cong Bai. Neighborretr: Balancing hub centrality in cross-modal retrieval, 2025. 2 [20] Ye Liu, Kevin Qinghong Lin, Chang Wen Chen, and Mike Zheng Shou. Videomind: A chain-of-lora agent for long video reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.13444 ,2025. 3 [21] Yongdong Luo, Xiawu Zheng, Xiao Yang, Guilin Li, Haojia Lin, Jinfa Huang, Jiayi Ji, Fei Chao, Jiebo Luo, and Rongrong Ji. Video-rag: Visually-aligned retrieval-augmented long video comprehension. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.13093 , 2024. 3 [22] Karttikeya Mangalam, Raiymbek Akshulakov, and Jitendra Malik. Egoschema: A diagnostic benchmark for very long-form video language understanding. Advances in Neural In-formation Processing Systems , 36:46212–46244, 2023. 5 [23] Juhong Min, Shyamal Buch, Arsha Nagrani, Minsu Cho, and Cordelia Schmid. Morevqa: Exploring modular reason-ing models for video question answering. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 13235–13245, 2024. 1, 3 

9[24] Tony Montes and Fernando Lozano. Viqagent: Zero-shot video question answering via agent with open-vocabulary grounding validation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15928 ,2025. 1, 2, 3 [25] Jongwoo Park, Kanchana Ranasinghe, Kumara Kahatapitiya, Wonjeong Ryu, Donghyun Kim, and Michael S Ryoo. Too many frames, not all useful: Efficient strategies for long-form video qa. In Workshop on Video-Language Models@ NeurIPS 2024 , 2024. 1, 2, 6 [26] Tingyu Qu, Mingxiao Li, Tinne Tuytelaars, and Marie-Francine Moens. Ts-llava: Constructing visual tokens through thumbnail-and-sampling for training-free video large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.11066 ,2024. 6 [27] Chuyi Shang, Amos You, Sanjay Subramanian, Trevor Dar-rell, and Roei Herzig. Traveler: A modular multi-lmm agent framework for video question-answering. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing , pages 9740–9766, 2024. 2, 3 [28] Yudi Shi, Shangzhe Di, Qirui Chen, and Weidi Xie. Enhanc-ing video-llm reasoning via agent-of-thoughts distillation. In 

Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 8523–8533, 2025. 2 [29] Jiawei Wang, Liping Yuan, Yuchen Zhang, and Haomiao Sun. Tarsier: Recipes for training and evaluating large video description models, 2024. 6 [30] Xijun Wang, Junbang Liang, Chun-Kai Wang, Kenan Deng, Yu Lou, Ming C Lin, and Shan Yang. Vila: Efficient video-language alignment for video question answering. In Eu-ropean Conference on Computer Vision , pages 186–204. Springer, 2024. 6 [31] Xiaohan Wang, Yuhui Zhang, Orr Zohar, and Serena Yeung-Levy. Videoagent: Long-form video understanding with large language model as agent. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 58–76. Springer, 2024. 3, 5, 6, 7 [32] Ying Wang, Yanlai Yang, Mengye Ren, and et al. Lifelong-memory: Leveraging llms for answering queries in long-form egocentric videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05269 ,2023. 6 [33] Yifei Wang, Zhenkai Li, Tianwen Qian, Huanran Zheng, Zheng Wang, Yuqian Fu, and Xiaoling Wang. Streameqa: Towards streaming video understanding for embodied sce-narios, 2025. 1 [34] Zheng Wang, Kun Huang, Zengrong Lin, and Cong Bai. Event-driven hybrid and cross-stage guide for video corpus moment retrieval. In Proceedings of the 2025 International Conference on Multimedia Retrieval , page 1367–1376, New York, NY, USA, 2025. Association for Computing Machin-ery. 2 [35] Ziyang Wang, Shoubin Yu, Elias Stengel-Eskin, Jaehong Yoon, Feng Cheng, Gedas Bertasius, and Mohit Bansal. Videotree: Adaptive tree-based video representation for llm reasoning on long videos. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 3272– 3283, 2025. 1, 2, 6, 7 [36] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, et al. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large lan-guage models. Advances in neural information processing systems , 35:24824–24837, 2022. 2 [37] Junbin Xiao, Xindi Shang, Angela Yao, and Tat-Seng Chua. Next-qa: Next phase of question-answering to explaining temporal actions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF con-ference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 9777–9786, 2021. 5 [38] Zeyuan Yang, Delin Chen, Xueyang Yu, Maohao Shen, and Chuang Gan. Vca: Video curious agent for long video un-derstanding. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 20168–20179, 2025. 1[39] Shoubin Yu, Jaemin Cho, Prateek Yadav, and Mohit Bansal. Self-chained image-language model for video localization and question answering. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36, 2024. 6 [40] Ce Zhang, Taixi Lu, Md Mohaiminul Islam, Ziyang Wang, Shoubin Yu, Mohit Bansal, and Gedas Bertasius. A simple llm framework for long-range video question-answering. In 

Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 21715–21737, 2024. 1, 2, 6 [41] Haoyu Zhang, Yuquan Xie, Yisen Feng, Zaijing Li, Meng Liu, and Liqiang Nie. Hcqa @ ego4d egoschema challenge 2024, 2024. 6 [42] Lu Zhang, Tiancheng Zhao, Heting Ying, Yibo Ma, and Kyu-song Lee. Omagent: A multi-modal agent framework for complex video understanding with task divide-and-conquer. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing , pages 10031–10045, 2024. 1, 3 [43] Yue Zhao, Ishan Misra, Philipp Kr¨ ahenb¨ uhl, and Rohit Girdhar. Learning video representations from large lan-guage models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 6586– 6597, 2023. 5 [44] Zhuo Zhi, Qiangqiang Wu, Wenbo Li, Yinchuan Li, Kun Shao, Kaiwen Zhou, et al. Videoagent2: Enhancing the llm-based agent system for long-form video understanding by uncertainty-aware cot. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.04471 ,2025. 3, 5, 6 

10 Think, Then Verify: A Hypothesis–Verification Multi-Agent Framework for Long Video Understanding 

# Supplementary Material 

## A. Result on VideoMME-L 

To further evaluate the generalization capability of our framework under broader video distributions and more diverse question types, we extend our experiments to VideoMME-L [6], a large-scale benchmark designed for general VideoQA. Compared with EgoSchema, IntentQA, and NextQA, VideoMME-L covers more open-domain con-tent and varied reasoning scenarios, providing a more com-prehensive evaluation setting. Table S1 reports results on VideoMME-L, where our method remains strong, outperforming the recent Video Cu-rious Agent (VCA) in ICCV’25 [38]. Under the same LLM/caption backbone (Table S2), we consistently outper-form the standard chain-of-thought reasoning and achieve the largest gains over prior approaches. In addition to accuracy, our framework demonstrates fa-vorable efficiency across datasets. On NextQA, where the average video duration is 39.5s, our framework requires 74.48s per sample on average. On EgoSchema, with an av-erage duration of 180s, the runtime is 123.67s. Notably, on the long-video benchmark VideoMME-L, which has an av-erage duration of 2466.7s, our method only takes 181.82s per sample on average. These results indicate that our ap-proach maintains stable and scalable computational cost even as video length increases substantially, highlighting its practicality for real-world long-form VideoQA scenarios. 

## B. Results on Different Backbones 

To better understand the contribution of our hypoth-esis–verification architecture independent of backbone strength, we conduct additional controlled experiments with different LLM and caption backbones. Since existing meth-ods adopt a variety of backbone configurations, directly comparing overall performance may obscure the architec-tural contribution. Therefore, we explicitly disentangle backbone effects by evaluating different backbone combi-nations within a unified setting. In Table 1, 7 of the 9 baselines already use strong LLM backbones: 2 use GPT-4 and 5 use GPT-4o, while only TS-LLAVA and Tarsier do not. To further isolate the contribu-tion of the hypothesis–verification design, Table S2 reports a fair backbone-controlled setting and also shows the base-lines that do not perform hypothesis verification, but use standard chain-of-thought reasoning (CoT). Under identi-cal backbone and captioner, our method achieves the best performance. Our framework remains consistently effec-

Table S1. Results on VideoMME-L, with VCA (ICCV’25) .LLM Methods Accuracy (%) GPT-4o CoT 46.7 VideoTree 54.2 (+7.5%) VCA 56.3 (+9.6%) 

Ours 60.6 (+13.9%) 

Table S2. Extra EgoSchema results under different LLM/cap-tioner.                          

> LLM Caption Model Methods Egoschema
> Claude-3-Haiku -CoT 60.9 LaViLa LifelongMemory 64.8 (+3.9%) LaViLa Ours 65.4 (+4.5%)
> GPT-3.5 -CoT 60.4 GPT-4o LVNet 61.0 (+0.6%) LaViLa LifelongMemory 64.0 (+3.6%) LaViLa Ours 76.2 (+15.8%)
> GPT-4o -CoT 66.0 GPT-4o LVNet 68.2 (+2.2%) GPT-4o LifelongMemory 72.0 (+6.0%) GPT-4o Ours 81.0 (+15.0%)

tive, indicating that our gains are not solely driven by using a stronger model. 

## C. Details of prompt in VideoHV-Agent 

We present all prompts used in the VideoHIV-Agent. First, frame-level information is integrated through Context Sum-marization. In the Hypothesis Generation stage, the agent observes the summarized video description and proposes a set of testable hypotheses for the candidate answers. In the Clue Generation stage, the agent evaluates the quality of these hypotheses and derives a concise clue that specifies what needs to be verified. In the Clue Verification stage, the agent grounds the clue in the video content and col-lects visual evidence to test it. When the verification result is inconclusive or lacks sufficient discriminative power, a hypothesis regeneration process is triggered. Specifically, Discriminability Enhancement addresses the problem of in-sufficient discrimination between hypotheses, while Speci-ficity Enhancement makes the hypotheses more concrete and testable when verification fails. The final stage, Evi-dence Integration, integrates all verification results to infer the most plausible answer. 1Context Summarization 

You are given some language descriptions of a first-person view video. The video is {length } seconds long. Each sentence describes a 1.0s clip. The de-scriptions are sequential and non-overlapping which cover the whole video exactly. Here are the descrip-tions: {interval text }. Please give me a {words }

words summary. When doing summarization, re-member that your summary will be used to answer this multiple choice question: {question }

Hypothesis Generation 

[Instruction] You are a reasoning planner. Given a video-related question and several answer options. Pay special attention to, if the option is clearly inappropriate for the context, do not generate a corresponding hypothesis. Rewrite remaining option into atestable hypothesis that can be verified from the video evidence. Each hypothesis must specify: - The key entities or objects involved, - The main action or event, - The temporal or causal relation among them. [Inputs] Question: {question }

Options: {options }

Context summary: {video summary }

[Output format] Return option (It must be a complete option, not just numbers) and hypotheses. 

Clue Generation 

[Instruction] You are a reasoning analyst. Given several rewrit-ten hypotheses corresponding to different answer options of a video question, analyze how distinct they are in terms of testable evidence in the video. Your task has three parts: Compare Hypotheses: Identify the core difference in entities, actions, events, causal/temporal relations, or visual evi-dence type (e.g., spatial layout, sequence of actions, emotional expression). 

Generate a Distinguishing Clue: Produce a concise description of what kind of video evidence could distinguish between these hypotheses. For example: “Check whether the person hands the object before or after speaking,” or “Verify if the dog appears indoors or outdoors.” Assign a Distinction Score (0–1): Give a numeric score representing how distin-guishable the hypotheses are based on likely video evidence, and provide the reasons for the score: 0.0–0.3: Hypotheses are too similar or overlapping 0.4–0.6: Moderate distinction but may require nuanced understanding 0.7–1.0: Strongly distinct, clearly testable differ-ence If the distinction score < 0.5, subsequent hypothe-ses need to be regenerated. [Inputs] Question: {question }

Hypotheses: {hypotheses }

Context summary: {video summary }

Clue Verification 

[Instruction] You are a reasoning verifier. You will verify whether a distinguishing clue derived from multi-ple hypotheses can be supported or refuted by the provided video context information. Follow this reasoning plan: 1. Clue Understanding Reinterpret the clue in plain terms: what needs to be verified? Identify what kind of evidence (objects, actions, relations, timing, spatial layout) would sup-port or contradict it. 2. Contextual Search Examine the given video summary, transcript, or ex-tracted description. Find sentences, events, or visual cues that are relevant to the clue. 3. Reasoning Trace Step by step, explain how the found evidence relates to the clue. Explicitly note whether the evidence supports or contradicts each hypothesis. Main-tain logical transparency: show what was observed, what inference was drawn, and what conclusion fol-lowed. 

24. Final Output Summarize whether the clue was verified, partially verified, or not found. Provide a short reasoning trace and the relevant evidence snippet. [Inputs] Question: {question }

Clue: {clue }

Frame level caption: {frame caption }

[Output format] “clue understanding”: “Describe what is being tested”, “evidence found”: “Summarize key details from the context or from tool retrieval”, “reasoning trace”: “[ Step 1: Identify action/event ..., Step 2: Compare with clue condition ..., Step 3: Draw inference ... ]”, “verification result”: “verified / partially verified / not verified”, If you cannot verify clues well and which frames might be helpful for verification, describe what ad-ditional evidence is needed. Call only one tool at a time and frame range no more than 5 frames. If the verification result is not verified, it means the clue is not good and needs to be regenerated. 

Evidence Integration 

[Instruction] You are an answer reasoning agent. Given a video question, and the verification results of the distinguishing clues, infer which option is best supported by the evidence. You must: 1. Integrate Verification Results 2. Resolve Conflicts If multiple hypotheses are partially verified, reason which one is more strongly aligned with the overall context and clues. If all clues are unverified, indicate uncertainty and suggest that additional evidence is needed. 3. Generate a Transparent Reasoning Chain Summarize what was tested, what was found, and how it leads to your conclusion. Avoid just “guessing.” Show cause–effect reasoning. 4. Output a Final Answer Specify the chosen option (0/1/2/...) and briefly justify it based on evidence. 

5. Note that you should only refer to the Verifica-tion Results, not accept them wholesale. [Inputs] Question: {question }

Option: {options }

Clue Verification Results: {verification outputs }

Context summary: {video summary }

[Output format] “reasoning summary”: “Summarize the verification results.”, “conflict resolution”: “If any conflicting evidence exists, explain how it was resolved.”, “final answer”: “Choose from the options to return only numbers.”, “explanation”: “Give a concise, human-readable ra-tionale connecting evidence to conclusion.” 

Discriminability Enhancement 

[Instruction] You are a reasoning planner for video question answering. The previous round of hypotheses had low distinction, meaning the hypotheses were too similar or not easily distinguishable based on video evidence. Your task is to regenerate a new set of hypotheses—each still grounded in its respective option, but now rewritten to maximize their semantic and evidential differences so that they can be clearly tested and compared from the video. Follow these reasoning steps: 1. Analyze Distinction Feedback Identify why the distinction score was low (e.g., overlapping actions, vague entities, lack of tempo-ral or causal contrast). Determine what types of features (action, timing, spatial layout, emotion, interaction) can be emphasized to make them more distinct. 2. Regenerate Option-based Hypotheses Keep each hypothesis aligned with its original option’s meaning. Rewrite it to highlight unique, observable, and discriminative aspects of the event. Ensure that each hypothesis involves different entities, actions, outcomes, or temporal relations whenever possible. 

3[Inputs] Question: {question }

Options: {option }

Previous hypotheses: {previous hypotheses }

Verification feedback: {verification feedback }

Context summary: {video summary }

[Output format] Return option (It must be a complete option, not just numbers) and hypothesis. 

Specificity Enhancement 

[Instruction] You are a reasoning planner improving video-based hypotheses for a multiple-choice question. Each hypothesis must correspond directly to one answer option. The previous verification phase failed to confirm the clues, so you need to regenerate hypotheses that are: Still faithful to their respective answer options, More concretely testable from the video evidence, Better aligned with the available context. Follow these reasoning steps: 1. Analyze Verification Feedback Identify why the previous verification failed (e.g., missing actions, unclear subject, no visible timing, or too abstract). Determine what type of visual or contextual evidence is available or missing. 2. Regenerate Option-based Hypotheses For each option, rewrite its hypothesis to make it more specific, testable, and observable within the context. Preserve each option’s core meaning (do not alter its logical claim). Avoid unverifiable statements (e.g., emotions, intentions, unseen causes). If an option is clearly impossible to verify from context, note that no valid hypothesis can be formed. [Inputs] Question: {question }

Options: {option }

Previous hypotheses: {previous hypotheses }

Verification feedback: {verification feedback }

Context summary: {video summary }

[Output format] Return option (It must be a complete option, not just numbers) and hypothesis. 

4